


Monster hit in the making; Buzz is building for filmmaker Bong Joon-ho's The Host. The horror flick, which has won rave reviews and an armload of awards, opens across Canada tomorrow
The Globe and Mail (Canada)
March 29, 2007 Thursday

 Copyright 2007 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE GLOBE REVIEW; Pg. R1
Length: 600 words
Byline: JENNIE PUNTER, Special to The Globe and Mail
Body




 Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-ho arrived at the 2006 Toronto International Film Festival last September with a monster hit. 
 The buzz for his new movie, The Host - a singular cinematic cross between a 1950s-style creature horror flick and a serio-comic family melodrama - began last May at the Cannes Film Festival; when the film opened a couple of months later in South Korea, it quickly became the country's highest-grossing film of all time. 
The Host now seems poised to become an unlikely international hit. Since its limited release (71 screens) in the United States a few weeks ago, it has garnered rave reviews and pulled in solid box-office numbers - modest compared with the $25-million (U.S.) raked in by TMNT (the new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles flick) last weekend but certain to grow as The Host is unleashed on more North America screens over the next few weeks. 
 It opens in Canada tomorrow. 
 If enthusiasm for The Host on this continent is still limited to film critics and genre aficionados, it's a different story in Asia. Last week, The Host picked up major awards (best picture, actor, cinematographer and visual effects) at the inaugural Asian Film Awards in Hong Kong. 
 This month, The Host became the first South Korean film to top the weekend box office in China, where it is entitled The Han River Ghost. 
 The film's Chinese title gets the name of the river correct - but the creature that dwells there is no ghost. It's an enormous, crafty and surprisingly agile fish-like monster that wreaks havoc on the banks on the Han, quickly transforming the city into a paranoid police state. 
 Set in modern-day Seoul, The Host begins with a darkly humorous scene in which a U.S. scientist commands his helper to dump toxic chemicals down the drain - inspired by an actual incident that happened in the 1980s. "A toxic chemical was released into the Han River and people found fish with curved backs - some people even said the fish had legs," Bong explained in an interview during TIFF. 
 Bong, who understands English but spoke through an interpreter, worked with designer Jang Hee-chul to conceptualize not only the look but also the movement of the large mutant creature. "I suggested to Mr. Jang that the creature should have a Korean feel, it should look different that Western fantasy creatures so it would work well with Korean actors," he said. "We talked about how it should run fast on land when it attacks people and how it should do back flips off the bridge." 
 Tall and gregarious, Bong - whose previous films include Memories of Murder and Barking Dogs Never Bite - is a cinephile who knows his Peckinpah as well as his Kurosawa. Nods to film lore are evident throughout The Host, but the characters feel fresh and original - perhaps because his "heroes" are a family of unremarkable, unreliable talents trying to rescue their daughter/niece from the creature's lair. 
 "In genre films, the main characters are usually genius scientists or soldiers, but I don't like that convention," Bong said. "The family fighting the monster are all losers so they bumble, which gives us the comedy, and they are powerless, which gives us the tragedy." 
 Despite its unusual story, Bong doesn't think The Host has too many uniquely South Korean sensibilities. "The film shows some Korean paranoia about the government not protecting the lower classes or more helpless people in society," he explained, adding with a laugh, "And since [The Host] will be released in many foreign countries, I think the reception to the film will determine each country's opinion of its social welfare." 
 Graphic



 
Illustration
 Load-Date: March 29, 2007

 

