


Review: The Host: Director lands a big one with tale of river monster
Evening News (Edinburgh)
August 18, 2006, Friday
Festival 06 Edition

 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: Pg. 2
Length: 413 words
Byline: Gareth Edwards
Body




EIFF, The Host (Guimul) Cameo ***** NOT surprisingly the centre of a bidding war after its screening in Cannes, The Host (Guimul) was allegedly sold to producers on the basis of a picture of the Loch Ness monster stuck on a postcard of Seoul's Han River. From such humble beginnings, South Korean director Bong Joon-ho has crafted a terrifying, hysterical and exhilarating piece of cinema. The start of the film is based on a real event in 2000, when staff at a US military morgue in Seoul poured hundreds of bottles of chemicals down the drain and into the Han River. 
Jumping forward two years it shows two fishermen, who inadvertently catch a small unseen creature in a cup. Before they can determine what it is ("Have you ever seen anything with so many tails?") it is dropped back in the river. Four years later a businessman stares down at the black waters of the river, shouting to his colleagues "there's something dark in the water" before throwing himself to his death. The director then slows the pace to present the world of the film's main characters - sleepy food stall owner Park Kang-du, his elderly father and his young daughter Hyun-seo - before storming into the first appearance of the creature, a thrilling sequence which builds to a truly shattering climax. First glimpsed hanging from a bridge, the strange beast is initially a curiosity to the crowds, who throw it food and beer to see if it will do anything exciting. And it does, appearing in all its CGI glory and rampaging around the shore, attacking everything in sight, before grabbing Hyun-seo and disappearing into the river. As the government steps in and people begin to panic at news that the beast carries a deadly virus, Kang-du discovers that his daughter is still alive in the sewers and with the help of his father, drunken brother and Olympic archery star sister, sets off to rescue her. An unashamed monster movie at heart, this is anything but predictable and veers off on the most unlikely and sometimes bewildering tangents. It has plenty of shocks and thrills, as well as some quite incredible humour. Song Kang-ho is excellent as Kang-du, a sleepy, somewhat retarded figure who, despite his many failings, is willing from the first to take on the monster. And newcomer Ko Ah-sung is superb as his tough but terrified daughter. With a great story, superb direction and a truly memorable monster, this is as enjoyable a film as you're likely to see all year. Screens today at Cineworld
 Load-Date: August 18, 2006

 

