


Film reviews: Parasite; Mr Jones; A lustrous mash-up of thriller and social commentary, Parasite will sink its teeth into you, says Tom Shone
thetimes.co.uk
February 9, 2020 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved
 
Section: CULTURE; Version:1
Length: 1303 words
Byline: Tom Shone
Body




The Korean director Bong Joon Ho's movies can be divided into two sorts: those with monsters and those without. His latest, 
                   Parasite                   
, sounds as if it should be in the former category, alongside 
                   Okja                   
 and 
                   The Host                   
, but actually belongs in the latter, with 
                   Snowpiercer                   
 and 
                   Mother                   
 - although, by the end of it, you're not so sure.
We tend to make a sharp distinction between genre movies and those with "something to say". Bong fails to notice that divide: he's made a lustrous, vibrant genre mash-up of Hitchcock thriller, social commentary, European art film and Korean schlock cinema. I don't know what to call it except a genie that, once conjured, plays in your head for weeks. A parasite, you say?
Meet the Kim family, whose sole source of income derives from folding pizza boxes. They live virtually underground, in a crowded, messy flat partially below street level, through the window of which they are lucky to catch a glimpse of a drunk pissing against a wall, or get a free wi-fi signal. One day, the son, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-sik), lands a private tutoring gig in a gated mansion at the top of a hill that belongs to a rich architect named Park Dong-ik (Lee Sun-kyun) and his wife, Yeon-kyo (Jo Yeo-jeong). Behind a lush canopy of trees and an entrance that makes a thick kerchunk sound like a vault, Ki-woo must prepare the couple's teenage daughter, Da-hye (Jung Ji-so), for college. Ki-woo has failed his entrance exam four times, but what's a piece of paper when your sister is a dab hand at Photoshop?
One deception quickly begets another. When the younger Park boy, a spoilt brat obsessed with tomahawks, turns out to require a therapist to help him with his art, Ki-woo puts the family in touch with his sister, Ki-jung (Park So-dam), introducing her as "Jessica". So now there are two of them in the lap of luxury. Next up, a job for dad, Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho), after they frame the chauffeur; and when the long-serving, long-suffering housekeeper (Lee Jeong-eun) takes her eye off the ball, they hoodwink the Parks into hiring their mother, Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin), instead. So now there are four of them there, a full set. When the Parks go on a camping trip, the Kims simply move in for the weekend. "Rain falling on the lawn as we sip our whiskies," Ki-taek says, smiling broadly, sloppily drunk.
Who wouldn't sympathise? At the same time, who isn't absolutely certain that a comeuppance is on the way? (Keep your eye on that fired housekeeper, for the real fun has not even begun.)
Plugging into our universal disquiet about the inequality between the haves and have-nots, Bong has fashioned a darkly enjoyable class-war thriller in which the real monster is global capitalism itself, but there is nothing heady or didactic about it. The plot clicks into place like a Rubik's cube, and the action is storyboarded with the pounce and snap of a manga comic. There is violence, yet it feels as clean and gleaming as the Parks' kitchen, around which the camera prowls like a house cat. If you've ever wondered what a production designer does, check out the immaculate, minimalist surfaces of the mansion, with its marble tables and built-in closets, then see the dramatic purposes to which each are put, and that's before we've realised there's a basement. I haven't seen the architectural plans of a house prove so integral to a movie's plot since 
                   Psycho                   
.
This film's working title was 
                   Decalcomania                   
 - the process of transferring designs from paper onto glass or porcelain, creating a mirror image, or doppelganger. It's a kinder title than 
                   Parasite                   
, to be sure, although trying to work out who exactly is the parasite of the title can be instructive.
The Kims feel no malice toward the Parks, who in their own way are quite likeable, even Mr Park, with his haughty conviction that the people who ride on the subway have a certain "smell".The Kims "invade" the Parks' home not to rob or kill them, but merely to earn a living. Nor are they impoverished saints - they are sprawling and a little selfish, and they get messily drunk - so you never feel hectored by a thesis. The film is far too seductive for that. Gliding from social commentary to horror movie to 
                   grand guignol                   
 farce, in which every detail - a tomahawk, a walkie-talkie, a flickering lightbulb - is orchestrated with split-second timing and loaded with portent, 
                   Parasite                   
 has the feel of a modern classic.
Agnieszka Holland's 
                   Mr Jones                   
 begins with a writer (Joseph Mawle) in the late 1940s, bashing out an allegory about totalitarianism with farm animals on a typewriter. No, it's not a biopic of George Orwell, but something more interesting. It's a film about the Welsh journalist whose work exposing the Holodomor - the famine caused by Stalin's agricultural policies, which killed 10 million people - partly inspired Orwell's book.
Beginning with a scene in which the 27-year-old Gareth Jones (James Norton) is laughed out of the Foreign Office by Lloyd George's cabinet for suggesting that war with Nazi Germany is imminent, the film starts out as a noirish, 
                   Third Man                   
-like thriller, as Jones secures a journalist's visa to Russia to discover the truth about the USSR's economic expansion. The film burrows into the time just before the horrors of the gulag became known, when Stalin was thought to be a good egg by one and all, and this normalisation may be the film's most salutary lesson for today's audiences.
Befriended by another British journalist, Ada Brooks (Vanessa Kirby), who refers to the KGB man following her as her "big brother", Jones travels to Ukraine and ducks his government-appointed minders to check out the conditions for himself. There the movie changes gear, and almost genre, for its portrayal of what greets him: a wintry landscape of death and starvation in desolate eastern Ukraine, where infants bawl unattended, people step around corpses lying where they fall in the street, and - in the movie's most shocking sequence - children feast on unidentified meat. Shedding noirish camera angles and Eisensteinian montage for a haunting, handheld aesthetic - it feels like a sudden dose of Tarkovsky in the middle of a thriller - Tomasz Naumiuk's cinematography fills the widescreen frame and packs a humanitarian punch that the film never again matches.
The more it strays towards the territory of a traditional biopic, the less successful it is. Jones and Orwell never met in person, but the screenwriter Andrea Chalupa imagines a lunch between the two men. "I have a story, but if I tell it, six innocent men will die," Jones says. Thus, we are to understand, was the germ of 
                   Animal Farm                   
 born - a slight exaggeration, but not much - as Orwell began to slip away from sympathy for the Kremlin's "great experiment".
I could have done without the shots of Orwell clattering away at his typewriter, but Norton gives a deeply sympathetic performance as the young, idealistic Jones, trying to expose the original fake news; Peter Sarsgaard is slithery as the Pulitzer-winning writer Walter Duranty, a slinky sybarite whose louche parties leave Norton's glasses steamed; and Kirby delivers another dose of agonised romantic ambivalence. (Someone cast her in a Graham Greene adaptation, soon.) But the star here is the 71-year-old Holland, whose directing career, after a stint directing TV for HBO, feels newly resurgent and relevant.
 Load-Date: February 11, 2020

 

