


Review: 'Parasite'
The Michigan Journal: University of Michigan - Dearborn
January 29, 2020 Wednesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: AANDE; Pg. 1
Length: 308 words
Body




Photo//CJ Entertainment
"Parasite" is a very complex movie, from beginning to end. It's a film that is definitely worth repeating because it'll keep you on your toes and make you think. My overall rating of the film is a 5 out of 5. I was caught off guard at first with it being a foreign film and questioning its premise, but that question didn't matter by the end of the film.
Directed by Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-Ho, the film was first released last year in South Korea on May 30, and then in the U.S. on Oct. 5.
"Parasite" is about the Kim family, who are poor and live in a small basement apartment with dreams to become rich someday. When the opportunity to get more money arises, the family devises a plan to pose as the wealthy Park family. The film touches on the idea of socio-economic classes, and how it affects the Kim family.
The film meets the criteria of being a good movie with an amazing director, great actors/actresses, and a terrific screenplay. Throughout the movie I was confused, laughing, and on the edge of my seat as I watched what became an innocent action turn into something more unexpected.
Besides the actors giving great performances in the film, I think that the production crew also did a phenomenal job. Production designer Ha-jun Lee made sure that the environment and the buildings told a story. Costume designer Se-yeon Choi demonstrated that you can tell a story with subtle things, like the clothes you wear. Cinematographer Kyung-pyo Hong made sure that the shots and angles were set up to give the characters and settings were the main spotlight.
The film has 6 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Director. It has also received widespread critical acclaim, earning an 8.6/10 on IMDb, 96% on Metacritic, and a 99% on Rotten Tomatoes. I highly recommend seeing "Parasite."
 Load-Date: January 31, 2020

 

