


Urvashi Rautela copies New York writer's Parasite review. At least correct the grammar, he responds
India Today Online
April 1, 2020 Wednesday 03:28 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 India Today All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 486 words
Body




Urvashi Rautela often grabs headlines for lifting off content from various celebrities' social media accounts and she has done it again. But this time, she's picked up an entire movie review from a New York-based writer, Jaun Paul Bammer.
Needless to say, netizens have been trolling Urvashi on Twitter on account of plagiarism since then. But guess what, the writer has also reacted to the similarity between both the tweets.
Here's what happened:
Urvashi posted a review of Bong Joon Ho's Oscar-winning film Parasite yesterday (March 31) and netizens were too quick to match her tweet with the writer's, who wrote the exact words on his Twitter handle on March 3.
Urvashi wrote, "one thing I really love about @ParasiteMovie is that rather than depict the fam as scammers pretending to be good at their jobs, they actually do their jobs flawlessly! what they lack isn't skill, but institutional stamps of approval & the bows and ribbons that rich people love (sic)."
However, the tweet has been deleted now.
She also posted the same on her Instagram story.
After the Pagalpanti actress tweeted about Parasite, a collage with the screenshots of both the tweets has been doing the rounds on Twitter.
 It's no brain time. pic.twitter.com/K8wGZdHFmn Niriksh (@nirikshhhh)            March 31, 2020
The writer, who has JP as his username, noticed the collage shared by one Twitter user. He didn't take any offence, and instead wrote, "I am rooting for her."
However, in his second tweet, he pointed out how she didn't even correct the grammar on the tweet.
"Why didn't she at least correct the grammar" um my bad grammar?? is part of the vibe??? wow (sic)," the writer tweeted.
 "why didn't she at least correct the grammar" um my bad grammar?? is part of the vibe??? wow JP (@jpbrammer) March 31, 2020
Earlier this year. Urvashi copied PM Narendra Modi's tweet. PM Modi had tweeted about veteran actress Shabana Azmi's speedy recovery after she met with an accident in January and Urvashi used the same words in her tweet back then.
In 2018, Urvashi was heavily bashed for copying Gigi Hadid's statementon Instagram.
Coming back to Parasite, the film won four awards at Oscars 2020 - Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best Foreign Language Film and Best Picture.
Watch the official trailer of Parasite
ALSO READ | Bong Joon Ho's Oscar-winning film Parasite starts streaming from March 27 on OTT
ALSO READ | How Shah Rukh Khan reviewed Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, which made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite makes Oscar history with Best Picture win
ALSO READ | Parasite Movie Review: Bong Joon Ho film is like poetry
ALSO READ | Urvashi Rautela bashed for copying PM Modi's tweet for Shabana Azmi. Cut copy paste, says Twitter
ALSO SEE | Urvashi Rautela tries to copy Taylor Swift but fails miserably
ALSO WATCH | Leonardo Di Caprio to Joaquin Phoenix, who is ahead in the Oscars 2020 race
Link to Image
 Graphic



 
Urvashi Rautela copies New York writer's Parasite review. At least correct the grammar, he responds
 Load-Date: April 1, 2020

 

