


South Korean film Parasite is honoured with the coveted Palme d'Or... while Quentin Tarantino's Once Upon A Time In Hollywood is SNUBBED at the Cannes Film Festival
MailOnline
May 25, 2019 Saturday 8:46 PM GMT

 Copyright 2019 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TV&SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 912 words
Byline: Charlotte DeanRoxy Simons For Mailonline
Body




•	South Korean director Bong Joon-ho picked up Cannes Film Festival's Palme d'Or
•	The film is about a poor family of hustlers who find jobs with a wealthy family
•	Parasite has received rave reviews and a five-minute standing ovation
•	Joon-ho is the first Korean filmmaker to ever win the coveted Palme d'Or
•	The Grand Prize went to director Mati Diop's feature-film debut Atlantics
South Korean director Bong Joon-ho picked up Cannes Film Festival's coveted Palme d'Or award for his social satire Parasite on Saturday night.
The film was awarded the festival's top prize, while Quentin Tarantino's latest outing Once Upon A Time In Hollywood was snubbed by the board in all categories.
Joon-ho's tragicomedy is about a poor family of hustlers who find jobs with a wealthy family, but become embroiled in dark, unexpected and currently unknown incident. 
Similarly to Once Upon A Time In Hollywood, little has been revealed about the film so that the audience can enjoy it without knowing how the plot will unfurl. 
Parasite has received rave reviews ever since it premiered at the glitzy event and received a five-minute standing ovation from the audience.
It stars one of Korea's most prolific actors, Song Kang-ho, and Parasite marks the fourth time he's worked with prestigious director Joon-ho. 
Joon-ho is the first Korean filmmaker to ever win the Palme d'Or and also only the second Asian filmmaker be awarded the prize after Hirokazu Koreeda won it last year for his family drama, and Oscar nominee, Shoplifters. 
In the festival's closing ceremony, jury president Alejandro Inarritu said the choice had been 'unanimous' for the nine-person jury.
The genre-mixing film had arguably been celebrated more than others at Cannes this year, hailed by critics as the best yet from the 49-year-old director.
Joon-ho's previous successes include Netflix hit Okja starring Tilda Swinton, South Korean murder mystery Memoirs Of A Murderer and cult hit Snowpiercer. 
The decision to allow Netflix films Okja and The Meyerowitz Stories by Noah Baumbach to compete in Cannes in 2017 sparked outrage.
Film festival head Thierry Fremaux, 57, said Netflix and other streamers could still screen their movies, but couldn't vie for the top prize, according to an article by The Hollywood Reporter.
Fremaux said he wanted the films by the acclaimed directors to premiere at Cannes instead of going to another festival, but neither one of them won.
'Last year, when we selected these two films, I thought I could convince Netflix to release them in cinemas. I was presumptuous, they refused,' Fremaux said.
Netflix tried to secure permits to screen the movies, but ran afoul of France's strict chronology laws surrounding film release. The festival has since changed its rules to require theatrical release in France.
The festival's second place award, the Grand Prize, went to French-Senegalese director Mati Diop's feature-film debut, Atlantics. The film by Diop, the first black female director ever in competition in Cannes, views the migrant crisis from the perspective of Senegalese women left behind after many young men flee by sea to Spain.
Although few quibbled with the choice of Bong, some had expected Cannes to make history by giving the Palme to a female filmmaker for just the second time. Celine Sciamma's period romance Portrait of a Lady on Fire was the Palme pick for many critics this year. Instead, Sciamma ended up with best screenplay.
In the festival's 72-year history, only Jane Champion has won the prize in 1993 for The Piano, tying with Chen Kaige's Farewell My Concubine.
Best actor went to Antonio Banderas for Pedro Almodovar's reflective drama Pain and Glory. In the film, one of the most broadly acclaimed of the festival, Banderas plays a fictionalised version of Almodovar looking back on his life and career.
'The best is still to come,' said Banderas, accepting the award.
                     CANNES' FILM FESTIVAL WINNERS                    
- Palme d'Or: 'Parasite' by Bong Joon-ho (South Korea)
- Grand Prix: 'Atlantics' by Mati Diop (France)
- Jury Prize: 'Les Miserables' by Ladj Ly (France) and 'Nighthawk' by Kleber Mendonca Filho (Brazil)
- Best director: Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne (Belgium) for 'Young Ahmed'
- Best actress: Emily Beecham (Britain) for 'Little Joe'
- Best actor: Antonio Banderas (Spain) for 'Pain and Glory'
- Special mention: 'It Must Be Heaven' by Elia Suleiman
- Best screeplay: 'Portrait of a Lady on Fire' by Celine Sciamma (France)
The Belgian brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne, who have already twice won the Palme d'Or, took the best director prize for Young Ahmed, their portrait of Muslim teenager who becomes radicalized by a fundamentalist imam.
The jury prize, or third place, was split between two socially conscious thrillers: The French director Ladj Ly's feature-film debut Les Miserables and Brazilian director Kleber Mendonça Filho's Bacurau. 
British actress Emily Beecham won best actress for her performance in Jessica Hausner's science-fiction drama Little Joe. The jury also gave a special mention to Palestinian director Elia Suleiman's 'It Must Be Heaven.'
The Camera d'Or, an award given for best first feature from across all of Cannes' sections, went to César Díaz's 'Our Mothers,' a drama about the Guatemalan civil war in the 1980s. 
Tarantino, who attended the closing ceremony, didn't go home empty handed. On Friday, a prominent pooch in his film won the annual Palme Dog, an award given by critics to Cannes' best canine. 
 Load-Date: May 26, 2019

 

