


THE HOST (GUIMUL)
Variety
May 29, 2006 - June 4, 2006

 Copyright 2006 Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM REVIEWS; Pg. 34
Length: 823 words
Byline: DEREK ELLEY
Body




(SOUTH KOREA-JAPAN)
  A Showbox/Mediaplex (in South Korea)/Kadokawa Herald (in Japan) release of a Chungeorahm Film, Showbox/Mediaplex (South Korea)/Happinet Corp. (Japan) presentation, in association with participation of OCN, Knowledge & Creation Ventures Co., IBK Capital Corp., Cineclick Asia, Cowell, BiNext Capital, IMM Investment Corp., SBS, M-Venture Investment, Tube Pictures Co., Sego Entertainment Co., CJ Venture Investment, Boston Investment Co., of a Chungeorahm Film production. (International sales: Cineclick Asia, Seoul.) Produced by Choi Yong-bae. Executive producers, Choi, Kim Woo-taek, Jeong Tae-sung. Co-producer, Jo Neung-yeon.
  Directed by Bong Joon-ho. Screenplay, Bong, Ha Jun-weon, Baek Cheol-hyeon; story, Bong. Camera (color), Kim Hyeong-gu; editor, Kim Sun-min; music, Lee Byeong-woo; production designer, Ryu Seong-heui; costume designer, Jo Sang-gyeong; sound (Dolby Digital), Lee Seung-cheol, Choi Tae-yeong; visual effects-animation, the Orphanage (San Francisco); visual effects supervisor, Kevin Rafferty; special creature effects, Jang Heui-cheol. Reviewed at Cannes Film Festival (Directors Fortnight), May 21, 2006. Running time: 118 MIN.
  With: Song Gang-ho, Byeon Heui-bong, Park Hae-il, Bae Du-na, Ko A-sung, Lee Dong-ho, Lee Jae-eung, Yun Je-mun, Kim Roi-ha, Park No-shik, Yim Pil-sung, Scott Wilson.
  (Korean, English dialogue)
  
  On almost every level, there's never quite been a monster movie like "The Host." Egregiously subverting its own genre while still delivering shocks at a pure genre level, and marbled with straight-faced character humor that constantly throws the viewer off balance, this much-hyped big-budgeter about a huge mutant tadpole that emerges from Seoul's Han River is a bold gamble that looks headed to instant cult status. Broader biz, especially beyond East Asia, will depend heavily on reaction to its world preem in Directors Fortnight, and some re-editing would better equip it for specialty distribution in the West.
  Film is set for a wide, late-July release in South Korea, followed by an early September rollout in Japan, which provided almost half of the reported $10 million coin (huge in local terms). Helmer Bong Joon-ho has not ruled out some tweaking in the meantime. Reaction at its gala midnight screening on May 21, heavily populated by Asiaphiles, was a mixture of admiration and discombobulation.
  Beyond all the fancy visual effects --- way above the rocky level of recent Asian fantasies like "The Myth" and "The Promise" --- the tone of the pic falls somewhere between the social parable of Bong's "Barking Dogs Never Bite" and the character-driven, offbeat drama of his "Memories of Murder."
  Pic, which is not even in widescreen, will be best appreciated by auds who just go with the quirky flow rather than expect regulated, U.S.-style thrills.  
  Prologue, set six years ago at the U.S. Army Base in Yonsan, Seoul, has a South Korean flunky ordered by his Yank boss (NEED NAME) to empty gallons of aging formaldehyde into the sink --- and therefore straight into the Han River . Clearly ludicrous English-language scene (which would benefit from revoicing) signals Bong's lack of interest in making a science-heavy blockbuster --- there's little emphasis on the usual government-military paraphernalia of such movies. Cut to October '06 and locals are enjoying a day out on the banks of the river. Among them are convenience stall owner Park Heui-bong (Byeon Heui-bong), his idle doofus son, Gang-du (Song Gang-ho, the cop in "Murder"), and the latter's daughter, young high-schooler Hyeon-seo (Ko A-sung).
  When something is spotted hanging beneath one of the bridges and then sliding into the river, the locals pelt it with cans and snacks .
  First appearance of the monster is aces, catching the viewer off guard after a slow build-up. Combo of visceral energy and offbeat humor, plus Lee Byeong-woo's pounding drum music, is impressive, and as the creature finally scoops up Hyeon-su with its tail and swims off, the stage is set.
   Script's political content is more occasional barb than fully developed subtext. Bong maintains the focus on the Park family, with Gang-du lumbering through the drama with assists from onetime student revolutionary Nam-il and expert archer Nam-ju.  Problematic central section could do with 15 minutes of tightening. Final half-hour, however, is aces, as all threads connect, with no simple heroes and a kind of sad, messy triumph, plus barbed coda.
  Perfs are more than fine with especial kudos to Ko as the plucky Hyeon-seo, local star Song as the working-class slob, and Bae Du-na (lead in "Dogs"), as the sportswoman.
  Visual f/x, supervised by Kevin Rafferty ("Star Wars: Episode I --- The Phantom Menace") and largely done by San Francisco-based the Orphanage, are a slick meld of CGI and animation, while always reminding the audience that, at the end of the day, the creature is only a movie monster.
  
 Load-Date: May 30, 2006

 

