


Review: Parasite at the Cannes Film Festival; The movie veers between comedy, social commentary and darker fare with the woozy confidence of an intoxicated person trying a death-defying feat
thetimes.co.uk
May 23, 2019 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT

 Copyright 2019 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TIMES2; Version:1
Length: 414 words
Byline: Ed Potton
Body




****☆
It's another hit from the Bong! Bong Joon-Ho, the South Korean writer-director who brought us 
                   Okja                   
 and 
                   Snowpiercer                   
, has returned with another hilarious, strange and wildly imaginative concoction. It centres on a family of four: Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho), his wife Chung-sook (Chang Hyae-Jin) and their twentysomething son, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) and daughter Ki-jung (Park So-dam)
They make a sorry quartet, crammed into a tiny basement flat, where they earn tiny sums from folding pizza boxes, watch drunks urinate against their window and scrounge free wifi from neighbouring cafés. Ki-jung crouches beside the toilet to get a signal and they open cans of beer to "toast their reconnection".
Yet their good-humoured squabbling conceals a streak of creative opportunism that surfaces when a friend of Ki-woo's offers him the chance to take over his job tutoring the daughter of a wealthy businessman. He and his family live in a vast modernist house that couldn't be more different from Ki-woo and co's dismal digs. It's an extraordinary space, all clean lines of glass and stone, that almost becomes a character in the film.
Ki-woo's sister forges him a university diploma and he wastes no time in inveigling his way into the affections of the girl and her mother (the excellent Cho Yeo-jeong), who is as trusting as she is generous with her husband's money. "She's rich, but she's still nice," says Ki-taek. "She's nice because she's rich," Chung-sook corrects.
Either way, the rest of Ki-woo's family are soon assuming aliases to get on the payroll of their oblivious benefactors, as chauffeur, housekeeper and art teacher to their disturbed young son. The deceptions become increasingly byzantine; the scenes in which they practise their lines are a hoot, as is Chung-sook's impression of North Korean news announcers.
What's already an entertaining yarn - like a heist movie crossed with a domestic farce - is then sent spinning off in a new direction by a totally unexpected twist. The film veers between comedy, social commentary and much darker fare with the woozy confidence of an intoxicated person attempting a death-defying feat. Whatever Bong puts in his bong must be darn strong. You expect the whole enterprise to come crashing down around his ears, but this is a film-maker in total control of his craft. 
                   Parasite                   
 must be a long shot to win the Palme d'Or.
 Load-Date: May 23, 2019

 

