


Peter Howell: 'Parasite' just might win Best Picture at Oscars, thanks to momentum and the class nerve it struck
thestar.com
February 6, 2020 Thursday

 Copyright 2020 Free Daily News Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 0
Length: 324 words
Byline: Peter Howell
Body




This week we're handicapping the prospects of the nine Best Picture contenders at the Academy Awards on Feb. 9. Today: "Parasite."
Quick pitch: Poor but wily, members of the Kim family eke out an existence in their modern South Korean metropolis. On the other side of the tracks are the Parks, a family rich in money but lacking in empathy. The Kims and Parks are separated by fortune, but fate - and subterfuge - will bring them together.
Starring: Song Kang-ho, Choi Woo-shik, Lee Sun-kyun, Park So-dam, Cho Yeo-jeong, Lee Jung-eun, Chang Hyae-jin, Jung Ziso, Jung Hyeon-jun.
Written by: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won.
Directed by: Bong Joon-ho.
Nominations: 6
Key early kudos: Toronto Film Critics' Association Best Picture, Director and Foreign Language Film; SAG Best Ensemble Acting.
Box office (domestic, U.S. dollars): $33.2 million.
Ladbrokes odds: 7/2
William Hill odds: 11/4
Ranking in Gurus o' Gold critics poll at MovieCityNews.com: Second place, as of Feb. 4.
Why it could win: It has truly struck a nerve this Oscar season, transcending language and tradition with its universal tale of class struggle. Many signs point to a historic victory by the little South Korean movie that could.
Why it might not: Oscar has historically resisted giving Best Picture to foreign-language films, as "Roma" found out last year.
Howell's line: All eyes on the prize as this Cannes monster makes its move on Oscar's domain.
Full review: 'Parasite' is a savage, surprising class satire that pricks the conscience
Previously:
'The Irishman' is a Scorsese masterpiece, but it won't master the Oscars
Why 'Jojo Rabbit' is the people's choice, but it probably won't be Oscar's
Could push-back against men at Oscars pull up 'Little Women'?
Have Oscar voters fallen out of love with 'Marriage Story'?
Older male Oscars voters might propel 'Ford v Ferrari' in Best Picture race
Peter Howell is the Star's movie critic based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @peterhowellfilm
 Load-Date: February 8, 2020

 

