


Parasite wins top honour at Cannes
The Toronto Star
May 27, 2019 Monday

 Copyright 2019 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited
Section: TV; Pg. E2
Length: 789 words
Body




History was made and history repeated itself, albeit with a wicked twist, when Bong Joon-ho's Parasite won the Festival de Cannes' Palme d'Or on Saturday night. Bong, whose most recent films were Okja and Snowpiercer, is the first South Korean director to win Cannes' top prize, and his delight in the victory was visible when he shook his fist in triumph to the crowd as he approached the Palais des Festival stage. Parasite is a savage social satire that goes further than anyone will be expecting, detailing the ways that a family of heartless manipulators mercilessly takes advantage of clueless rich folks. And that's only the beginning.
Taking the Grand Prix, Cannes' runner-up prize, was a first feature, Mati Diop's Senegal-set Atlantics, a haunted and haunting film about star-crossed lovers that combines supernatural elements with social consciousness. Diop became the first Black female filmmaker to have a film play in Cannes competition.
The best actor award went to Antonio Banderas in Pedro Almodovar's quasi-autobiographical Pain and Glory, about a director at a crisis point in his life, and Banderas, who exaggerated the difficulty of climbing the stairs to the stage, paid unstinting tribute to his director. "We made eight movies together. I respect him. I admire him. I love him," the actor said. "The award has to be dedicated to him; I owe so much to him. We suffer a lot as actors; there's a lot of sacrifice, but there are also nights of glory, and this is my night of glory."
With both Quentin Tarantino's Once Upon A Time ... In Hollywood and Terrence Malick's A Hidden Life shut out, the only English-language film to win a prize was the best actress award to Emily Beecham in Jessica Hausner's Little Joe.
Los Angeles Times
Aladdin soars
at box office
Walt Disney Co.'s live-action remake of Aladdin crushed the competition at the box office over the weekend. Aladdin did better than expected, grossing an estimated $86.1 million (U.S.) to take the top spot at the North American box office. A musical-adventure directed by Guy Ritchie, Aladdin stars Will Smith, Mena Massoud and Naomi Scott and draws heavily on the music and story of the 1992 animated film (the top earner of that year) that it's based on.
The top few spots at the box office were populated by known brands and sequels. John Wick: Chapter 3 - Parabellum, now in its second weekend, placed second with $24.4 million. Avengers: Endgame took third with $16.8 million, and Pok#233;mon Detective Pikachu landed in fourth with $13.3 million. Sony's modestly budgeted horror movie Brightburn opened in fifth with $7.5 million. The James Gunn-produced film starring Elizabeth Banks puts a sinister spin on the Superman myth and has received mediocre reviews from critics. A surprise for many, however, was Booksmart, an Annapurna film distributed by United Artists Releasing, which debuted in sixth with only $6.5 million, despite excellent reviews and steady buzz from its SXSW film festival debut.
Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theatres, according to Comscore.
1.Aladdin, $86.1 million
2. John Wick: Chapter 3 - Parabellum, $24.4 million
3. Avengers: Endgame, $16.8 million
4. Pok#233;mon Detective Pikachu, $13.3 million
5. Brightburn, $7.5 million
6. Booksmart, $6.5 million
7. A Dog's Journey, $4.1 million
8. The Hustle, $3.8 million
9. The Intruder, $2.3 million
10. Long Shot, $1.6 million
The Associated Press
A.J. Devlin wins crime writing prize
The mystery is solved: the winners of the annual Arthur Ellis Awards were announced Thursday. The big prize, Best First Crime Novel with a cash award of $1,000, went to A.J. Devlin for Cobra Clutch. Other winners included Anne Emery for Best Crime Novel for Though the Heavens Fall; John Lawrence Reynolds for Best Crime Novella for Murder Among the Pines; former Toronto Star writer Linwood Barclay for Best Juvenile/Young Adult Crime Book for Escape; and Sarah Weinman for Best Nonfiction Crime Book for The Real Lolita: The Kidnapping of Sally Horner and the Novel That Scandalized the World.
Deborah Dundas
Artistic director finds new home
Alan Dilworth is the new artistic director of Necessary Angel Theatre Company. "Alan is an artistic visionary with a masterful ability to bring his vision to life on the stage and in his programming," Necessary Angel board chair Nalini Stewart said in a news release. Dilworth began his career as a writer, director and actor, co-founding two companies, Belltower Theatre and Sheep No Wool. He was a resident artist with Soulpepper and became its acting artistic director in 2018 after founding artistic director Albert Schultz resigned in the face of a sexual harassment lawsuit by four actresses (it was later settled).
Debra Yeo
 Load-Date: May 27, 2019

 

