


Parasite director Bong Joon Ho gets hero's welcome in South Korea
India Today Online
February 17, 2020 Monday 12:04 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 India Today All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 363 words
Body




Parasite director Bong Joon Ho was greeted with cheers and applause as he returned to South Korea on Sunday after his historic four-Oscar win. About 300 reporters and fans were waiting to greet Bong as he arrived at the Incheon International Airport.
"Thank you for the applause, I would like to send a round of applause back to you all for coping so well with the coronavirus," Bong said.
"I will join the effort to overcome the corona by washing my hands diligently. Happy to be home," he added.
. . #oscars #theacademy #bongjoonho #gisaengchung #parasitos #parasite #parasitemovie @parasitemovie  A post shared by            Bong Joon-Ho (@bongjoonhoofficial) on Feb 10, 2020 at 7:59am PST
Parasite became the first foreign-language film to win the best picture in the 92-year history of the Academy Awards on Feb 9. It won a total of four Oscars, including best director and original screenplay for Bong Joon Ho and the best international feature film.
The film is a tale of two South Korean families - the wealthy Parks and the poor Kims - that mirrors the deepening disparities in Asia's fourth-largest economy and has struck a chord with global audiences.
Koreans have been celebrating for the past week.
Local cinemas and TV channels began a rerun of the film, as well as showing Bong's other films including Snowpiercer and Memories of Murder.
Bong and the cast of Parasite are scheduled to hold a press conference on Wednesday.
Watch the official trailer of Parasite
ALSO READ | Parasite: South Korea celebrates Oscar win of Bong Joon Ho's film
ALSO READ | How Parasite, a non-English film, made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO READ | Parasite Movie Review: Bong Joon Ho film is like poetry
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Joaquin Phoenix and Renee Zellweger are Best Actors, Parasite wins Best Picture
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite makes Oscar history with Best Picture win
ALSO READ |How Shah Rukh Khan reviewed Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, which made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO READ |Parasite makes history at Oscars 2020: Priyanka Chopra and Karan Johar lead Bollywood wishes
ALSO WATCH | Leonardo Di Caprio to Joaquin Phoenix, who is ahead in the Oscars 2020 race
Link to Image
 Graphic



 
Parasite director Bong Joon Ho gets hero's welcome in South Korea
 Load-Date: February 19, 2020

 

