


JAMIE EAST AT THE MOVIES Korean comedy Parasite is the most entertaining film of the year
thesun.co.uk
February 7, 2020 Friday 1:49 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM,TV & SHOWBIZ,FILM REVIEWS; Version:1
Length: 483 words
Byline: Jamie East
Body




                     THIS is the one you have heard so much about for the past few months.                   
Groaning under the weight of this much critical acclaim usually indicates pomposity, arthouse incomprehensibility . . . or that it has been made by Marvel.
However, this dark, twisted, subtitled black comedy from South Korea completely lives up to expectations. It is utterly marvellous.
To be honest, you are better off knowing as little as possible about the film before you go in. Just let the madness unfurl, taking you on a very wild ride.
If you don't need persuading with a rundown of the plot, skip ahead a few paragraphs.
For those who need a little encouragement, here is what we have to play with. The Kims are a family of four living in poverty in a Seoul basement, contending with people urinating outside their window.
They rely on the government to fumigate the streets, so they in turn can leave their window open to get the roaches out of their flat and carry on nicking free wifi from upstairs. It is a grim existence and they are fed up with it.
When an opportunity arises for the son to teach English to the daughter of a rich businessman, they hatch a cunning plan to infiltrate their lives and leech as much as they can.
They are grifters, chancers, liars and thieves - and you will root for them every step of the way. In stark contrast, the Parks are super-cool, super-rich and happy but vacant.
You don't dislike them but their ambivalence towards the lower classes grates throughout.
As the Kims worm their way into the (very cool) house, replacing the staff one by one, you have no clue which way it will play out - and nothing really prepares you for the path it chooses.
                     BRACE YOURSELF                   
It is completely gripping. Director Bong Joon-ho displays incredible dexterity here.
On the face of it, this is a farcical black comedy at its centre, with a crispy thriller coating.
Yet it is the social and political statements around the class divide that give it real bite.
Thanks to his incredible track record (he was responsible for the wonderful Okja, for instance) one of the most satisfying elements of this film's success is that it will almost certainly avoid the standard Western remake.
This is good news, as its Korean origins are what gives Parasite its sharp edges. In Western culture, we rarely reflect the disparity of the classes in quite the same way.
That is not to say it isn't as harsh elsewhere. But the basement-dwelling culture is synonymous with cities such as Seoul.
And for us sanitised Westerners, the unfamiliar surroundings - coupled with the familiar glossy-mag Grand Designs minimalism - really work.
Believe the plaudits, get your arse to the cinema and brace yourself for the most entertaining movie of the year.
                     Parasite (15) 132mins                   
                     *****                   
 Load-Date: February 7, 2020

 

