


"Parasite" made history at the Oscars: it won four awards including best film
CE Noticias Financieras English
February 10, 2020 Monday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 826 words
Body




South Korean Parasite Bong Joon-Ho made history: it became the first non-English-spoken film to win the Oscars jackpot. In addition, she was the one with the most statuettes from last night's ceremony in Los Angeles: she also became the best director, best original screenplay and international film. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which delivers the Oscar, had never recognized a South Korean film.
Parasite thus set aside those who came as the big favorites in a group that featured 11 nominations and 1917 that had 10 nominations and all the way to sweep the awards.
Guasón took the obvious Best Actor award for Joaquin Phoenix and best original music (which for the first time was won by a woman, the Icelandic Hildur Gusnadóttir).  1917 by Sam Mendes also took home the categories he had the safest: better photography (Roger Deakins, for the second year in a row), visual effects and sound mixing.
Once in Hollywood, Quentin Tarantino's last to come up with aspirations in 10 categories, he realized two: best production design and best supporting actor for a Brad Pitt who, upon receiving him, was friendly but much more sober than in the Globes of Gold.
More forceful was the defeat of the other film that came with 10 nominations.  The Irishman, the last of Martin Scorsese, took nothing and that meant leaving his director, Joe Pesci and Al Pacino empty, for example. Despite this, Scorsese was given a standing ovation when Bong Joon-Ho dedicated the award to him and mentioned it as one of his main influences.
Irish is a Netflix production. The platform came to the party with 24 nominations and left with only two: Laura Dern for Best Supporting Actress for Marriage Story and the documentary American Factory, the platform's first association with Barack and Michelle Obama's production company.
He also won two awards in technical areas (editing and editing sound), Against the impossible that he aspired to best film.
As best lead actress, she won Renee Zellweger for her judy Garland's composition. It's her second Oscar, making her one of the most awarded actresses of her generation.
The Academy clearly preferred for the leading the most histrionic performances, over the subtleties of Scarlett Johansson and Adam Driver in Marriage Story or Antonio Banderas in Pain and Glory.
Taika Waititi won best adapted screenplay by Jojo Rabbit and Women's Best Costume Design, a fair but insufficient recognition for one of the best films of the year.  Toy Story 4 was the best animated film, beating FavoriteMissing Link and Spanish, Klaus.
The best song of the year was for Elton John and Bernie Taupin for "[I’m Gonna) Love Me Again", Rocketman's song, John's biopic.
Parasite became the first film in 65 years to win the two great recognitions of world cinema: the Palme d'Or in Cannes and the Oscar for best film. The only time that had happened was in 1955 with Marty, a drama with Ernest Borgnine, of which few memories remain.
Bong's film tells the story of two South Korean families: the Kims are very rich and the Parks are delicious. However, by a series of circumstances they cross paths and show an impassable social rift. It is a reflection on the inequities that South Korean prosperity has left, but its hypothesis is universal. It is a great film that in Uruguay was presented at the José Ignacio International Film Festival (where it won the jackpot) and is still on the lineup in Montevideo.
Bong matched Walt Disney's record of being the person to take four awards inone night. Last year, Alfonso Cuarón for Rome was made of three.
The ceremony lasted three and a half hours and showed, as always, the best of American cinema. He had no designated driver and appealed to the grace of some of the award anchors to keep interest. It wasn't as boring as other years.
The list of hosts included Salma Hayek, Oscar Isaac, Will Ferrell, Steve Martin, Chris Rock, Sigourney Weaver, Brie Larson, Gal Gadot, Steven Spielberg, Maya Rudolph, Kristen Wiig, James Corden and Rebel Wilson draped in Cats costumes and mocking that and Diane Keaton and Keanu Reeves, the most charming couple in the world. Tom Hanks presented the opening Academy Museum and Jane Fonda presented the award for Best Picture.
There were a lot of musical numbers. In addition to all the nominated songs and a review of the best from some films, he acted, resirantly, Eminem. And Billie Eilish, the girl of the moment, performed, with her brother at the piano, a surrender from "Yesterday" that accompanied the emotional segment of the deceased film world.
Despite what usually happens, the ceremony was not marked by politics. Although there were female claims and a confused allegation from Phoenix about animal rights and climate change, no one referred to the convulsed local politics.
It was, in short, a movie night. And for those who say they're predictable prizes, this year the Oscars were sent with an unexpected prize. Fair, certainly, but unexpected.>
 Load-Date: February 11, 2020

 

