


REVIEW: 'Parasite,' jaw dropping, ingenious exploration of class discrimination
The Daily Vidette: Illinois State University
February 28, 2020 Friday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 312 words
Byline: An ingenious drama/dark-comedy divulges class discrimination in this gasp-inducing foreign film.
Body




An ingenious drama/dark-comedy divulges class discrimination in this gasp-inducing foreign film.
It comes to no surprise that "Parasite" directed by Bong Joon Ho made Oscar history winning four Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Foreign Language Film.
Not only was "Parasite" the first international movie to score Best Picture but it took home the most awards at the Oscars 2020.
Taking place in South Korea, the destitute Kim family struggles for job opportunities.
Son Ki-woo is introduced to a tutoring job from a college friend for the wealthy Park family. The rest of the Kim family swindled their way to occupy the remaining jobs at the wealthy Seoul family home.
A film for the Redbirds, "Parasite" does indeed reference ISU. Sister Ki-jeong pretends to be a recent graduate from the School of Fine Arts at Illinois State University in order to secure a job at the opulent household.
Bong does a great job captivating a greedy and mendacious family that makes you feel for them. Many twists unfold throughout the film unveiling tragedy and reflection.
The stunning cinematography and the bond the Kim family has will make you forget you are reading English subtitles.
Grab some popcorn and your favorite candy because you will be glued to the screen wondering what is going to happen next in this unpredictable film.
You might want to check your basement after watching this dark and brilliant film.
ASHLEY BINKOWSKI is a Photographer for The Vidette. She can be contacted at asbinko@ilstu.edu Follow her on Twitter at @BinkowskiAshley
IF YOU SUPPORT THE VIDETTE MISSION of providing a training laboratory for Illinois State University student journalists to learn and sharpen viable, valuable and marketable skills in all phases of print and digital media, please consider contributing to this most important cause. Thank you.
 Load-Date: February 28, 2020

 

