


Parasite review - satire and soul in Seoul; The year's surprise Oscar contender is a South Korean film that leaves Ed Potton dazzled
thetimes.co.uk
February 6, 2020 Thursday 5:00 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TIMES2; Version:2
Length: 469 words
Byline: Ed Potton
Body




****☆
It's another hit from the Bong. 
Bong Joon-ho
, the South Korean writer-director who brought us 
                   Okja                    
and 
                   Snowpiercer                   
, returns with a hilarious, strange, angry and wildly imaginative concoction that has been nominated for six Oscars and has won two Baftas and the Palme d'Or at Cannes. A high-risk Korean-language fusion of farce, satire and horror, it centres on a family of four: Ki-taek (
Song Kang-ho
), his wife, Chung-sook (Chang Hyae Jin), their twentysomething son, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik), and their daughter, Ki-jung (Park So-dam).
They make a sorry quartet, crammed into a tiny basement flat where they earn tiny sums from folding pizza boxes, watch drunks pee against their window and scrounge free wifi from neighbouring cafés - Ki-jung crouches beside the toilet to get a signal and they open cans of beer to "toast their reconnection".
Yet their good-humoured squabbling conceals a streak of creative opportunism that surfaces when a friend of Ki-woo's offers him the chance to take over his job tutoring the daughter of a wealthy businessman. He and his family live in a vast modernist house in Seoul that couldn't be any more different from Ki-woo and co's dismal digs. It's an extraordinary space, all clean lines of glass and stone, that almost becomes a character in the film.
Ki-woo's sister forges him a university diploma and he wastes no time inveigling his way into the affections of the girl and her mother (the excellent Cho Yeo-jeong), who is as trusting as she is generous with her husband's money. "She's rich, but she's still nice," Ki-taek says. "She's nice because she's rich," Chung-sook says. It's one of several stinging lines in a story that was partly inspired by Bong's experience working as a tutor for a rich family.
Ki-woo's relatives are soon assuming aliases to get on the payroll of their oblivious benefactors as chauffeur, housekeeper and art teacher to their disturbed young son. The deceptions become increasingly Byzantine - the scenes in which they practise their lines are a hoot, as is Chung-sook's impression of North Korean news announcers.
What's already an entertaining yarn - a heist movie crossed with a domestic farce - is then sent spinning off in a new direction by a totally unexpected twist. The film veers between comedy, social critique and much darker fare with the woozy confidence of an intoxicated person walking along a window ledge. Whatever Bong puts in his bong must be darn strong.
Such daring means the screenplay creaks ever so slightly in places. Yet although you expect the whole enterprise to come crashing down around Bong's ears, it never does. This is a film-maker working with delightful confidence and moral conviction.
                   15, 132min                 
 Load-Date: February 6, 2020

 

