


Donald Trump slams Oscars for awarding Best Picture to Parasite: What the hell was that all about?
India Today Online
February 21, 2020 Friday 10:06 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 India Today All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 402 words
Body




President Donald Trump is apparently not a fan of Parasite, his biggest complaint being that the movie was made in South Korea. Trump started talking about the Academy Awards during a campaign rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Thursday.
Parasite was named best picture, becoming the first non-English-language film to get the top honor.
"What the hell was that all about?" Trump said. We've got enough problems with South Korea with trade. On top of that, they give them the best movie of the year. Was it good? I don't know."
I was thrilled to be back in Colorado Springs tonight, beneath the majestic peaks of the Rocky Mountains, with thousands of terrific, hardworking American Patriots. With your help, this November, we are going to defeat the Radical Socialist Dems, and we are going to WIN Colorado!  A post shared by            President Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Feb 20, 2020 at 6:21pm PST
Neon, the US distributor for the subtitled film, shot back on Twitter, "Understandable. He can't read."
 Understandable, he can't read.#Parasite           #BestPicture           #Bong2020           https://t.co/lNqGJkUrDP NEON (@neonrated)            February 21, 2020
The audience booed when Trump mentioned the Academy Awards and then cheered when he said, "Can we get like Gone with the Wind back, please? Sunset Boulevard, so many great movies."
Parasite tells the story of how a family of four poor, unemployed people living in a slum basement apartment comically infiltrates a wealthy family residing at a luxurious mansion before things unravel violently and tragically.
Watch the official trailer of Parasite
ALSO READ | Parasite director Bong Joon Ho gets hero's welcome in South Korea
ALSO READ | Parasite: South Korea celebrates Oscar win of Bong Joon Ho's film
ALSO READ | How Parasite, a non-English film, made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO READ | Parasite Movie Review: Bong Joon Ho film is like poetry
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Joaquin Phoenix and Renee Zellweger are Best Actors, Parasite wins Best Picture
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite makes Oscar history with Best Picture win
ALSO READ |How Shah Rukh Khan reviewed Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, which made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO READ |Parasite makes history at Oscars 2020: Priyanka Chopra and Karan Johar lead Bollywood wishes
ALSO WATCH | Leonardo Di Caprio to Joaquin Phoenix, who is ahead in the Oscars 2020 race
Link to Image
 Graphic



 
Donald Trump slams Oscars for awarding Best Picture to Parasite: What the hell was that all about?
 Load-Date: February 21, 2020

 

