


The Host; REVIEWS - NEW RELEASE
Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)
March 11, 2007 Sunday
First Edition

 Copyright 2007 The Age Company Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: M; Preview; Pg. 41
Length: 300 words
Byline: Tom Ryan
Body




2.5/5
THE HOST
(M, 118 minutes) On general release
The prologue to The Host is based on an actual incident that occurred in South Korea in February 2000. At a morgue inside a US Army base in Seoul, an American doctor (Scott Wilson) orders his reluctant Korean assistant to pour hundreds of bottles of formaldehyde down the drain, the toxic chemicals making their way into the Han River. The rest of Bong Joon-ho's entertaining but overlong monster movie has no reported precedent in real life - but you never know what you're not being told, do you? The action begins in October 2006 when picnickers and others on the banks of the river are startled by the sight of a strange, amphibious creature hanging upside down from a bridge. 
Moments later, in a brilliantly staged sequence, they're fleeing for their lives, pursued by the giant, finned mutant. Among them are a slacker (Song Gang-ho) and his little girl (Ko A-sung), who become key players in the action that follows. Bong's film pivots on the aftermath of the initial panic and on the bumbling authorities' eventual attempts to rid the city of the creature, which is also believed to be the host of a deadly virus. When their efforts fail, the US, always happy to help out an ally, deploys the deadly "Agent Yellow" against the enemy. However, while Bong's film takes some easy political pot shots, its most distinctive features are the often-startling visual effects, the uneasy mixture of humour and horror and the cliffhanger cutting between sequences. The mixture of CGI and animation - by The Orphanage in San Francisco, under the supervision of animator Kevin Rafferty (Toys, Shark Tale, The Phantom Menace) - never manages to duplicate the impact of the stunning opening, but ensures that you always know this is a monster that means business.
 Load-Date: July 3, 2007

 

