


Review: Bong Joon-ho's Oscar winning and genre bending film "Parasite" is an agonizing masterpiece
The Daily Titan: California State University - Fullerton
February 12, 2020 Wednesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: AE; Pg. 1
Length: 871 words
Byline: Kim Pham
Body




Lights dimmed in movie theatres across the globe late last year as rooms were lit up by Bong Joon-ho's most critically acclaimed film, "Parasite," with the first shot panning down to the initial glimpse of the Kim family's home. Little did viewers know the ingeniously crafted social satire was to become an award-winning motion picture.  
Thank you, @TheAcademy#Oscars #PARASITE pic.twitter.com/eeUZ6zBGz4
- Parasite (@ParasiteMovie) February 10, 2020
The smell of the film's success is something that movie fanatics are unfamiliar with, considering that it was written and filmed in Korean. But, unlike the Park family's reaction to the Kim kin's odor - a theme that proved to be definitive in later parts of the story - the South Korean film was unapologetically celebrated in all of its glory. 
With the rising recognition of foreign films in American culture, accompanied by a leap toward overcoming the English-speaking community's fear of subtitles, "Parasite" swept four Oscars on Sunday night, on top of being recognized with hundreds of other awards and nominations. 
To put the cherry on top, "Parasite" also made history by being the first non-English film to receive the Best Picture title in the Academy Awards' 92-year run. 
The movie has even been approved by the strict critics of Rotten Tomatoes, as it currently has a 99% rating on the Tomatometer. Clearly, they can recognize the real deal when it's in front of them, a skill the Park family lacked when welcoming their newest recruits into their home.
"Parasite" exists as a comment on classism, following the Kims' penetration into a wealthy, yet clueless, household. Money can indeed buy comfort, but the Parks outdid themselves by falling host to the impoverished family.
Kim Ki-woo, played by Woo-sik Choi, was the first to infiltrate the Park's modernistic home, previously built and inhabited by the infamous fictional architect Namgoong Hyeonja. Ki-woo lucked out in having the connection that he did, because if it wasn't for his friend, Min, played by Seo-joon Park, Ki-woo would not have experienced the luxury of living above ground. 
As Ki-woo and his family scheme to get each member a job under the Parks' roof, their actions become more twisted and their morals less clear. With each con the Kims pull off, viewers begin to question where to draw the line between right and wrong, and Ki-woo begins to lose his grasp of reality as he fantasizes about having Min's life. 
Though Min's role was minimal, it was far from insignificant. Min is the catalyst for the Kims' connection to the Parks, as well as the figure of economic prestige that Ki-woo aspires to be. Even toward the end of the film, audiences can juxtapose the stark contrast between Min, an affluent university student, to Ki-woo, a wasted talent with the mind, but not the money, to climb out of his family's lower-class status. 
Ki-woo's hopes that his family will one day live upstairs are the figurative insect blocking his better judgment, and completely deplete him of his ethical compass. But, a parasite can only survive as long as its host remains healthy; that biological concept stands within nature as much as it does in class warfare. As Ki-woo falls into a downward spiral, his parasitic thoughts consequently follow suit.
Joon-ho does an immaculate job blending elements of comedy, crime, drama and horror into the film. He does it so well that the audience does not realize the damage that has been done until the Kims come face to face with the initial parasites of the Namgoong home. In an effort to protect their family's recent employment, occupations that are as sturdy as the lies they're based on, the Kims' actions come to symbolize the lower class's desperation for a better life.
When writing the story, Joon-ho said he experienced an epiphany that allowed him to conjure up the film's ironic and heart-wrenching conclusion: there will never be an end to economic disparity. Even though Ki-woo has legitimate talents, his forged resume represents that he is merely a fraud who is attempting to survive in a materialistic society. 
No amount of comedic relief in the first half of the film could have prepared viewers for the surprise that was to come knocking on their doors that fateful night, ominously accompanied by rain and the stench of desperation. On the same night that the Kims' temporary comfort was disrupted, a rainstorm terrorized their neighborhood as their semi-basement home was flooded with dirty water and the guilt of the sins they have committed.
The film's set design is reflective of the story's layers. Overlapping genres, themes and hierarchies were built into the house to show the film's complex elements struggling to coexist. Joon-ho emphasizes the metaphoric connotation of having levels within the house, between the rich and poor neighborhoods, and in the camera angles. 
The film concludes with a scene panning down from the Kims' basement window onto Ki-woo's futile hopes, mirroring the opening scene which is now tainted with despair and the acknowledgment of unachievable dreams. When the theater's lights came back on, movie-goers had no choice but to applaud the agonizing yet brilliant cinematic masterpiece that is "Parasite." 
 Load-Date: February 13, 2020

 

