


How Parasite wormed its way into our hearts; FILM PARASITE South Korean director Bong Joon Ho's social satire is already a critical and commercial hit. Can it clean up at the Oscars?
The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 8, 2020 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition

 Copyright 2020 Telegraph Media Group Limited All Rights Reserved
 
Section: REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9
Length: 1625 words
Byline: ROBBIE COLLIN
Body




Bong Joon Ho has spent the past nine months touring the world with his acclaimed new film, and in rare moments of respite has been trying to figure out why. The plot of his brilliant satirical thriller Parasite might resemble a bucket of angry snakes - but it's no twistier than the story of the film itself, which won the Palme d'Or at Cannes before becoming a £120million global box office smash, and is now a two-time Bafta winner and six-time Oscar nominee.
Films that tickle all three of these groups - Cannes juries, mainstream audiences and Oscar voters - are almost unheard of: the last to do so was Pulp Fiction, 25 years ago. That film's director, Quentin Tarantino, was notably beaten by Bong at the Baftas last Sunday evening in the Best Original Screenplay category: a rare and deserved win for a non-English script.
"Sometimes I wonder if Parasite's success is down to the way the film smells," he deadpans in his native Korean, laughing as his regular interpreter, Sharon Choi, unflappably relays the thought. (Choi, a 25-year-old Korean-American, has become the breakout star of the Parasite tour for her seemingly effortless live translation on stage and television.) "Its substance smells pungent and cruel. But in terms of style, it is sweet and enticing.
Perhaps this is a very unusual and appealing bouquet."
It's the morning after the Baftas, in the drawing room of Bong's London hotel: a pot of tea (English) is brewing, and modest elevenses have been served. Dressed in a charcoal suit and cardigan, his hair a half-coiffed nest, he's supremely affable, and looks at least a decade younger than his 50 years. The subdued nature of last night's celebrations may be a factor. Once the ceremony was over, he and the Parasite deputation merely shared a quiet drink, and steeled themselves for Oscar week itself.
"This is the last hundred metres of a long marathon for the whole team," he says. "And I think the Baftas have given us the adrenalin to finish." The biggest surprise of the night, he continues, was how solid the trophies turned out to be. "A heavy golden mask and an even heavier square stone base," he explains, before solemnly adding: "As weighty as the honour itself." There is another quiet chuckle as Choi relays this.
Released in the UK this weekend, Parasite is the breakthrough seasoned Bong-watchers have been anticipating for more than a decade, since his metaphorically charged monster movie The Host became an international cult hit. His seventh feature is a tale of two families: the down-at-heel but wily Kims and the affluent but gullible Parks, who live initially very different existences on opposite sides of modern-day Seoul.
Posing as domestic help, the Kims inveigle their way one by one into the Parks' modernist dream home and horn in on their elegant lifestyle - though once entrenched, a series of unexpected crises throws the ploy into disarray. Many critics, including this one, have found the film hard to categorise.
The first half, in which the Kims execute their plan, is like a particularly fiendish heist movie - while the second, in which all kinds of worst-case-scenarios uproariously click into place, is a kind of Rubik's cube farce. And the whole enterprise is struck through with a rich seam of social commentary: the plot turns on the grim divisions, and even grimmer pacts, between rich and poor, which only serve to keep us all in our place.
The film's tonal chicanery harks back to Hitchcock, but it has also proven to be an asset in the very modern world of social media, where shots and clips of Parasite's more offbeat moments quickly became enshrined as memes.
These were shared far and wide by admirers who proudly assembled under the hashtag #Bonghive - a play on Beyhive, Beyoncé's online fandom, who have been known to swarm on unbelievers.
Bong and his cast have often found themselves wondering why this particular film - so specifically anchored in modern Korean culture, with its wry asides about propaganda piped in from the north and bougie local food trends - was striking such a chord worldwide. But it became clear that it was doing so last autumn, after its North American premieres at the Telluride, Toronto and New York film festivals, when, says Bong, "people around me kept telling me the film would be included in Oscar season, whether I liked it or not."
Perhaps it's partly because Korea is uniquely well-equipped to tell a story about division. The country itself has been riven for more than 70 years, after post-Second World War negotiations between the US-occupied south and Soviet-occupied north reached a stalemate.
The suave Park family patriarch, played by Lee Sun-kyun, often talks about not crossing lines: "And while he's referring to the lines between classes and generations, every Korean person also lives with the line of the 38th parallel in the back of their mind." Bong was born in the city of Daegu in 1969 and raised in Seoul under the dictatorial Fourth Republic. His father was a professor in graphic design, his mother the daughter of the respected novelist Park Tae-won, who scandalously defected to the North in 1950.
As a student, Bong was a member of the country's prodemocracy movement: he also tutored the son of a very rich family friend, an experience that planted the seeds for Parasite in his mind. He discovered cinema through the US armed forces' television channel, his eye caught by the obvious censors' cuts and his imagination fired by thoughts of what they might conceal.
Now long-settled with his wife of 24 years, Sun-young - the couple have a son, Hyo-min, and a pet Norwich terrier, Zzuni - he politely rejects the idea that Parasite is an angry-young-manstyle "message movie". "I don't have the ability to use a film to reflect a specific political agenda," he says - though stresses its timely resonance is fully meant.
"Of the many divisions that exist within this film, the most horrific and cruel and blackly comic is the one between the various poor characters," he says. "Because unfortunately, they don't help each other. They can't form the sense of solidarity. And while that causes a lot of pain and sadness for the audience, I also think that's the most honest portrayal of what's going on in the world right now."
B ong's rise coincided with the explosion in the early 2000s of a gutsy, stylish new Korean cinema, heralded in the UK by the 2004 release of Park Chan-wook's taboo-smashing Oldboy. He gives a very earnest-sounding account of the movement's genesis, which Choi goes on to translate as the Korean government spiking the water supply in the late Nineties with an experimental chemical. Chortling, he then says it was actually the result of a sudden relaxation in censorship, "the fall of social repression we'd been living with until then".
Nevertheless, his work landed him on a "leaked" government blacklist of politically dangerous figures in the art world, to be denied state subsidies and possibly surveilled. His 2003 serial killer procedural Memories of Murder was flagged for its portrayal of "government officials and police as corrupt and/or incompetent groups, instilling negative perceptions in the public", while 2013's Snowpiercer, a muscular INVISION/AP HOLDEN/ science-fiction allegory set on board a post-apocalyptic express train, was decried for "[repudiating] the market economy and [encouraging] campaigns of social resistance".
VON MARK Bong roars with laughter. "It was so f------ stupid," he says, momentarily dropping into English, and recalls a discussion with Park Chan-wook, who was likewise named and shamed. "There were so many filmmakers on that list. We were like, 'Are there that many directors in Korea?' And everyone who wasn't included felt kind of insulted. 'This is a misunderstanding! I have to be on that list!' It was like something from a black comedy."
Of course, it was also borderline dystopian, and after the impeachment of Korean president2017, her former was found guilty sentenced to two Bong, meanwhile, two more projects Seoul-set disaster elements of action London-based by what he describes as "a British story from 2016".
Bong take on Brexit referendum, or Hatton Garden heist? Park Geun-hye in culture minister w of conspiracy and years in prison. B is on a roll, with t taking shape: a Se film that blends e and horror, and a drama inspired b cryptically descr news sto Could it the Bre the Ha With declin but sa forwa to the after best p on the His c "I try to m simple li "Drink c and try lot of pe a smile, he declines to elaborate, says he's looking forward to returning writing mindset spending the part of a year stump. creative secret? maintain a very lifestyle," he says. "coffee, write, not to meet a people."
FROM SERIAL KILLERS TO SUPERPIGS BONG JOON HO'S GREATEST FILMS MeMories of Murder (2003) A riveting police procedural based on a series of real murders not solved until last year, Bong's second film has been restored, sparking hopes of a re-release.
The HOST (2006) Like early Spielberg with a dash of Dr Strangelove's satirical venom, this is a modern monster movie classic, in which Seoul is menaced by a giant carnivorous tadpole.
MoTher (2009) This exhilaratingly eerie smalltown noir, about a middle-aged widow fighting to free her son from a false murder charge, sees Bong at his genre-bucking best.
SNOWPIERCER (2013) Bong's would-be international breakthrough - starring Chris Evans, Tilda Swinton and Song Kang-ho - was buried by Harvey Weinstein after an edit-suite feud.
OKJA (2017) Happily, Swinton returned for this madcap romp about a giant "superpig" bred to ease meat shortages. It's Bong's lightest, meme-friendliest film. RC
'The film's poor don't help each other. That is also what's going on in the world right now'
 Graphic



 
NO SOAP OPERA Park So-dam and Choi Woo-shik in Parasite, directed by Bong Joon Ho, belowMARK VON HOLDEN/INVISION/AP
 Load-Date: February 8, 2020

 

