


"Parasite": aspirations, wild capitalism and the brilliant portrait of a social carnage
CE Noticias Financieras English
January 25, 2020 Saturday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 1231 words
Body




There is a short scene, in appearance casual, at the beginning of Parasite, which is significant when the most violent events, much later, begin to precipitate, one after the other, almost in chain. The Kim family, who live in a kind of subsoil whose minimal window overlooks the street at the height of the sidewalk, is made up of father, mother and their twentysomething children. None of the four have a formal job and survive by folding pizza boxes for a chain. When the pizzeria clerk comes to get their boxes, she wants to pay them a discount for the ones that doubled badly and they protest for that money they'll lose. Ki-woo, the youngest son, suggests firing the "unreliable" employee they have and hiring him. Since the girl doesn't assure her that that's going to be possible, Ki-woo convinces her not to get that discount.
The scene goes unnoticed in the midst of a series of events that are going to get bigger, funnier, intense and, finally, violent. But that's where the film's narrative twists and, moreover, its ideological complexity are evident. If it were not for the point of view, though technically omniscient, is with the Kims and puts us on their side through their misadventures, the family could quietly be the villain of the story being told. Faced with their obvious economic needs they have made a culture of research, of the trap (of the "plan", as they tell it) and that will be what they will use when entering, one by one, in the luxurious house of the Parks to work all there, from an opportunity that will be p Resent Ki-woo from being the English tutor to the eldest daughter of that wealthy family.
The young man, who was unable to pursue college school as his friends and has to forge his credentials, first brings in his older sister, Ki-jeong (who introduces himself with the studied expression "Jessica, only daughter, Illinois, Chicago"), who convinces the unborn so innocent "mom Park" that her youngest son needs an art therapy that she can provide. The girl then kicks out the Park driver and puts her father in fulfilling that function. And immediately afterwards, through an even more elaborate plan, Ki-jeong manages to sicken the maid of the house and replace her with her own mother. So the Kims have gone on to be all employed by the Parks without these millionaires, a little distracted in their own follies, to realize. Of course, homeowners have no idea that the Kims are a family: they assume they don't know each other. The only one who feels anything strange is the little boy, who notices that the four "smell alike".
This is just the beginning, the narrative starting point of Parasite, the movie-feeling of the season, another unclassifiable cross-genre jumping game from Bong Joon-ho, the Korean director of the magnificent Memories of Murder and The Host. This mix of comedy, thriller, police thriller, horror film and politically tinged family drama won the Palme d'Or at Cannes and has just earned six Oscar nominations, which is rare in non-English-spoken films. Rare is also the critical unanimity and fervor that aroused in its wake. Unlike 99 percent of such lyre films, it's virtually impossible to read or hear bad reviews about Bong's film. This isn't where they'll necessarily read that, but they will.I have the impression that the film – of almost perfect narrative construction and visually impeccable based on its limited spaces of action and movements – has some complicated or challenging ideas, depending on the view of each viewer, about each viewer's point of view, about of the world it portrays. And they're not that simple to unravel.
Most of Parasite's analyses put the focus – in addition to celebrating its impeccable plot of deception, the accumulation of narrative surprises in its second half and the growing tension that develops – in the kind of literal class struggle that would take place between the Park and the Kims, when the film actually conceals or hides other equally or more central battles: the Kims's with the other people of their own social stratum (yes, those they get kicked out of their respective jobs) or with those who are even worse off , characters that will then emerge from the depths when one least expects them. Since it is impossible to advance further on this line of thought without revealing details of the plot, I will leave it here, in suspense, understanding that the viewer, when watching the film, will know what I mean.
It is there that Parasite becomes a movie no longer in terms of "cat versus mouse" (or vice versa), in which the tricks and traps of a needy family become justifiable in terms of cheating on self-absorbed millionaires, but in a kind of "dog eats dog" (by "dog eats dog" (by "dog eats dog" (by continue with the metaphors of the animal world), a kind of worth everything among the desclasated of the system to be able to enter it, to belong, to be safe from the dangers, natural or socioeconomic, of the real world. It's a format we've seen in several films - only in Argentina are the cases of The Owners or Good Life Delivery, while, internationally, some Michael Haneke titles also have similar ideas and themes - only here they are framed in a proposal in appearance so genderthat any social commentary seems to be in the background.
Bong's clever trick, which makes the film much more complex than that simplistic initial look at the world seems to present, is to deflect attention to one side when the real story passes on the other and then spin it again on its axis. Not only that, but when one already thinks he has assimilated the logic of the film, the filmmaker puts those lines together in the most unexpected ways, revealing his magic pass and justifying, in a way perhaps somewhat cruel and cynical but certainly intelligent , their previous narrative decisions. It is a bloody and aggressive, aspirational world, in which the one who has nothing wants to have something, the one who has that something wants to have more at the expense of whoever and, finally, the one who has everything would prefer that everyone below continue to live in hiding , without "going over the line", in subsoils or shelters, where they are not smelled and, preferably, also not seen.
Parasite – the ingenious thing about the title is not knowing who the film is talking about – is a brilliant portrait of that social carnage, a kind of sinister experiment of those that so many psychologists tended to organize by putting some conflicting element in the midst of a heterogeneous group of people until some of its members were brought out, the worst of themselves in order to win that battle. In its ideologically confusing but narratively very effective way (to such apoint that takes a couple of visions to notice such ambiguities), Bong ends up reaffirming that there is no culprit among the characters of this funny but ultimately macabre story, that the guilt is fundamentally systemic and that for many it has the name of " wild capitalism." In fact, that expression would not look bad as a title for this film that will surely leave almost everyone ecstatic but, at the same time, looking suspiciously for all sides as they leave the cinema.
*The original note was published in The Agenda
FOLLOW READING:
Latin American cinema takes Sundance Film Festival
100 years by Federico Fellini: a tour of the gaze and essential works of a unique director
 Load-Date: January 26, 2020

 

