


Parasite Movie Review: Bong Joon Ho film is like poetry
India Today Online
January 28, 2020 Tuesday 06:59 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 India Today All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 901 words
Body




How does one get rid of a parasite?
Bong Joon Ho sets the tone for the Oscar-nominated, Cannes Palme d'Or 2019-winner and Golden Globes 2020 Best Foreign Language Film-winner Parasite in the first scene itself. A family of four, living in a semi-basement level home, scouts the corners of their house to find WiFi signal. The neighbour must have changed the password, let's try 123456789 or in reverse. Still not working? Oops, no WhatsApp then.
Kim Ki-taek (played by Song Kang-ho) leads an unambitious family with wife Chung-sook (played by Chang Hyae-jin), daughter Kim Ki-jeong (played by Park So-dam) and son Kim Ki-woo (played by Choi Woo-shik). Their current source of income is folding pizza boxes for a pizza delivery joint, and it doesn't take someone solid knowledge in World Cinema to know that that money isn't going to be enough to feed four grown mouths. But, they have a plan, as Kim Ki-taek elaborates - it is to not have a plan at all. For then, the risk of anything going wrong is nil.
Watch the trailer of Parasite here:
Parasite is, therefore, a story of submission. On one end of the spectrum, the Kim family has submitted to their condition never improving, of scavenging through life. On the other end of the spectrum, the Park family has submitted to never peeping out of their ivory towers. They don't need to. Their ivory towers are guarded with surveillance cameras and windows are sealed with tempered glasses, monitoring even the sunlight seeping in. Led by Park Dong-ik (played by Lee Sun-kyun) with wife Yeon-gyo (played by Cho Yeo-jeong), daughter Park Da-hye (played by Jeong Ji-so) and son Park Da-song (played by Jung Hyeon-jun), the Park family doesn't live in a bubble; they live in a fortress, fortified by wilful ignorance.
Read: Why Bong Joon Ho's Parasite rises beyond the subtitle barrier
And then their worlds collide. The Kim family slowly and steadily creeps into the Park family, landing odd jobs with them, eliminating the competition as they move ahead. The son takes up the job of the English tutor replacing a friend, the daughter becomes the art teacher to the son, playing a hapless (and clueless) mother; the father lands the job of the driver replacing the older one, and finally, the older housekeeper is practically thrown out overnight and replaced with the mother. All this without letting the Parks catch a whiff that the Kims know each other, lest their finally steady quadruple income is snatched away. But the whiff is too strong, too strong coming from poverty.
The more they collide, the more apparent their differences get. They are separated by class, a difference that is almost flowing in their bloodstreams now, they are basically sweating class difference. It appears the Kims have gotten so used to living in hiding that they'd prefer living the life of a parasite, rather than disclose they are related and have a fair chance at being judged on the basis of their good work. Even they don't think they are worth it. Of course, the Parks don't either.
Through Parasite, Bong Joon Ho gives you a very clear picture of the South Korean society, or of any other place where unequal distribution and growth of wealth have resulted in the 'rich becoming richer, poor becoming poorer' model. This could very well be the story of a family living in the slums of Dharavi, juxtaposed against another living in that plush skyrise on Altamount Road, both in Mumbai. Which is why it hits so hard.
In Parasite, the cinematography by Kyung-pyo Hong, and editing by Jinmo Yang (nominated in the Best Achievement in Film Editing category at Oscars 2020) deserve a special mention. Staring out the window at Parks', you soak in the lush green of their front yard, while at the Kims', there's a drunkard peeing at the lamppost, who wouldn't stop even if you were to throw a bucket of water at him. But the visuals of those water droplets twinkling against the light from the lamppost, in slow motion, and the good laugh the have-nots like the Kim family share at that moment, is like poetry.
The storytelling style of Parasite is also unique. Bong Joon Ho goes from dark comedy to absurd comedy, to simply dark, and then darker. Finally, it touches a point of hope, and while one could look at it as just hope, it could also be the point where the film reached its darkest - for there is no hope. Let's just submit to that, shall we?
Bong Joon Ho had said at an interview that the idea for Parasite had been in his brain for a while - like a parasite, if you will. We're glad he didn't get rid of it, though.
(The Delhi premiere of Parasite was organised by the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in India.)
(Writer tweets as @NotThatNairita)
ALSO READ |Joaquin Phoenix's Joker to re-release in India on February 14
ALSO READ | Joaquin Phoenix on Joker leading Oscars 2020 nominations: Honoured by the Academy's recognition
ALSO READ |Oscars 2020: 92nd Academy Awards full nominations list
ALSO READ | Joaquin Phoenix wins Best Actor for Joker at Golden Globes 2020: The ascent after the descent
ALSO READ | Joaquin Phoenix and director Todd Phillips may reunite for Joker sequel
ALSO READ | Joker trailer out: Joaquin Phoenix film traces the origins of Batman's most terrifying enemy
ALSO READ | Joker to now release in India on October 2, will clash with Hrithik Roshan's War
ALSO WATCH | Joaquin Phoenix's Joker gets 8 minute standing ovation at Venice Premiere
Link to Image
 Graphic



 
Parasite Movie Review: Bong Joon Ho film is like poetry
 Load-Date: February 19, 2020

 

