


Oscars battle set to begin with war epic 1917 favorite to take home Best Film over The Joker and South Korea's Parasite - while Hollywood stars slam the Academy for the lack of diversity among nominees
MailOnline
February 9, 2020 Sunday 5:12 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 1203 words
Byline: Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.comReuters
Body




•	Oscars may see the revival of #OscarsSoWhite with only one person of colour, Cynthia Erivo, in the race; Erivo is nominated for best actress
•	There's also the issue of the nominations field being an all-male director field
•	Brad Pitt, Elton John, Scarlett Johansson and Martin Scorsese are among the A-List nominees, alongside little-known cast of Korean-language drama Parasite
•	If Parasite wins, it would be first time a foreign language movie won for best film
•	Parasite will be competing against Sam Mendes' World War One movie 1917
•	Johansson is nominated for Marriage Story and Jojo Rabbit; should she win both, she would be first to win two Oscars in same night
Hollywood will hand out its highest honours on Sunday at the 92nd Academy Awards ceremony that could see a battle between 1917 and South Korea's Parasite for Best Film, and an all-white actor winner podium that has revived the #OscarsSoWhite debate. 
A lavish, spiral stage featuring 40,000 crystals at Los Angeles' Dolby Theatre will be the glittering setting as the 24 golden statuettes are handed out on Tinseltown's biggest night. 
All eyes are on the coveted best picture prize, which awards watchers believe is a three-way race between independent social satire Parasite, British director Sam Mendes' immersive World War One movie 1917 from Universal Pictures, and Quentin Tarantino's love letter to show business, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, from Sony Pictures. 
                     Brad Pitt, Elton John, Charlize Theron, Leonardo DiCaprio, Scarlett Johansson and Martin Scorsese are among the A-List nominees, alongside the little-known cast of Korean-language drama Parasite, which threatens to steal the thunder from Hollywood's biggest names. 
This year is definitely a poor one for diversity, with Cynthia Erivo being the only actor of colour in the race, reviving the #OscarsSoWhite debate of four years ago. 
Erivo, who played slavery-era freedom fighter Harriet Tubman in Harriet, is up against Renee Zellweger, who has swept up awards this season for her performance as an ageing Judy Garland in Judy. 
'She gave an amazing performance,' said Variety chief film critic Owen Gleiberman. 'My jaw was just on the floor.'
There's also the issue of the field being an all-male director field. 
South Korean director Bong Joon Ho's drama Parasite is competing for both best picture and best international feature. 
'The smart bet is definitely "1917," but I do not rule out the possibility of something else winning, whether that be "Parasite" or "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," or "Jojo Rabbit",' Scott Feinberg, awards columnist for The Hollywood Reporter, said ahead of the show.
Parasite looks certain to win the newly named best international film category and is seeking to enter the history books as the first film in a foreign language to win a best picture Oscar. 
Pitt, the supporting actor frontrunner, is riding high, winning multiple awards for his role as a charming stunt man in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. He's delivered witty speeches and set hearts aflutter with a backstage encounter with his ex-wife Jennifer Aniston that went viral last month. 
Pitt says he won't be bringing a date to the Oscars. Neither Aniston nor Pitt's second ex-wife, Angelina Jolie, have been announced as attending Sunday's show. 
Johansson is nominated in both the lead actress for Marriage Story and supporting actress for Jojo Rabbit. 
Should she win both, she will make history as the first actor to win two Oscars for different roles on the same night. 
Dark comic book movie Joker from Warner Bros, which has a leading 11 nominations, Netflix divorce drama Marriage Story and the streaming service's mob epic The Irishman, race-car drama Ford v Ferrari from 20th Century Studios, and novel adaptation Little Women from Sony Pictures, round out the competition for the top prize.
Variety senior film editor Marc Malkin said he believes someone will absolutely address the fact that no female directors were nominated for Oscars this year. 
'Who is going to address the complete shutout...? I imagine someone will do that,' Malkin said.
Irish maestro Eimear Noone will become the first woman to conduct the Oscars orchestra, but diversity among guest hosts and performers is unlikely to assuage anger over this year's nominations.
'I wouldn't call it #OscarsSoWhite but I'd say it's #OscarsAsUsual,' Deadline awards columnist Pete Hammond said.
'It looks like the Oscars could have been 30 years ago.'
The Oscars in the acting categories - usually a subject of agonizing deliberation for industry pundits - appear settled, with the same four stars sweeping up rave reviews and prizes all season.
Joaquin Phoenix and Renee Zellweger are believed to be far ahead of the competition for best actor and best actress. 
Phoenix underwent a striking transformation to portray the title comic book supervillain in Joker - as did Zellweger to play legendary Hollywood diva Judy Garland in Judy.
Experts believe Phoenix is the favorite to win his first Oscar for a disturbing performance as the loner clown who turned to violence.
The winners are chosen by the 8,000 members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and for the second year in a row, the show has no host.
In 2019, rock band Queen got proceedings off to a rousing start with a live performance to mark the success of movie 'Bohemian Rhapsody' but this year organizers aren't saying how they will grab the attention of audiences settling in at home. 
Netflix boosted its Hollywood credentials by getting a leading 24 nominations this year, including for drama The Two Popes, animated movie Klaus, and documentary American Factory. 
Yet the coveted best picture Oscar may elude it yet again on Sunday, awards watchers say. 
Elton John, Billie Eilish and Idina Menzel are also among musicians scheduled to perform on the Oscars stage. 
The event's luxury and glamour will contrast with the grief enveloping Los Angeles over the recent deaths of Golden Age film legend Kirk Douglas and Oscar-winning basketball star Kobe Bryant.
Both titans have been added to a hastily re-edited 'in memoriam' montage honoring those Hollywood lost this year, with Eilish expected to provide a moving musical accompaniment.
The record Grammy-winning singer, who will soon voice the new James Bond theme, is one of several high-profile musical guests on a night when all five nominated songs will be performed.
John, who is tipped to win for (I'm Gonna) Love Me Again from Rocketman, will feature, as will Erivo, who also sang and wrote the theme to Harriet. 
Meanwhile, look for the red carpet to be dominated by Pose star Billy Porter. 
Porter has transformed the red carpet with headline grabbing, gender fluid outfits ranging from a black velvet tuxedo gown to a remote-controlled hat and a golden pharaoh outfit. 
He has said he's planning another surprise for Sunday.
The line up of presenters include Bohemian Rhapsody star Rami Malek, Star Wars actress Kelly Marie Tran, director Spike Lee, Salma Hayek, Mahershala Ali, Mindy Kaling, Lin-Manuel Miranda and rising star Utkarsh Ambudkar will all take the Oscar stage. 
The Academy Awards will be televised live from Hollywood on ABC television, starting at 8pm ET/5pm PT.
 Load-Date: February 10, 2020

 

