


2020 Oscar Awards: The Secrets of "Parasite," the film that can make history
CE Noticias Financieras English
February 8, 2020 Saturday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 1160 words
Body




Parasite, the film-feeling of the season, another unclassifiable cross-genre jumping game by Bong Joon-Ho, the Korean director of the magnificent Memories of murder and The Host, has already won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, took home-building the award SAG Awards and will compete in six categories at the Academy Awards.
She is nominated as one of the leading candidates to stay on Sunday with the award for best film: in case that happens, it would be the first unspoken feature film in English to achieve it. The only antecedent was El Artista, the French film that managed to win the statuette in 2012, but there its actors did not speak, and ended up being a tribute to silent cinema that found its years of rise in the early Hollywood industry.
Last year this race was played by Roma, the film of the Mexican Alfonso Cuarón that told the life of Cleo, a domestic employee set in the Roma neighborhood of Mexico City. This film, spoken in Spanish and Mixtec, shot in black and white, had an aggravating for the Academy: it was a production of Netflix, the streaming giant. It was one thing to give him an award as a foreign film, and quite another to give him the power of the big screen. That's how Green Book took the Oscar, much to the discontent of many.
Parasite may feel far away to the United States when we consider that it portrays families living thousands of miles from where the American dream is built. Awarding the prize to this production would involve a before and after in the most important award of world cinema.
Bong Joon Ho, director of "Parasite", at the BAFTA Awards (Photo: REUTERS/Toby Melville) (TOBY MELVILLE/)
In this film Ki-taek is the patriarch of a poor family that lives on a low floor in Seoul and survives on precarious work. The life of this humble clan will change radically when the son gets a job as an English teacher for a child in an upper-class house. We are not looking at a case of a film that is difficult to see and understand, nor that it encloses high artistic issues for those who do not belong to that niche. Parasite could perfectly be a popular American, French or Argentine film. It does not belong to indie cinema (independent and low budget); on the contrary, it has so far raised about $140 million, and goes for much more.
For those who never saw anything about Bong Joon-Ho, a movie like Parasite will be totally surprising. Those who, on the other hand, know this filmmaker, will appreciate in Parasite tones and themes very typical of one of the most important directors of contemporary cinema. To locate this director throughout his career, he has so far made seven feature films and belongs to a generation of new filmmakers from South Korea that have emerged since the mid-1990s.
In all these cases there is a strong imprint of political and social cinema, an interest that in the case of Bong Joo-Ho connects even with his own academic title (before dedicating himself to film graduated as a sociologist). Within these social interests, what persists most is a personal look at power relations. Not only because in his cinema there are tensions of class or authority (which most of the time is the same thing), but because more than once that power manifests itself awkwardly and even unconsciously. A clear example of this is in The Host. What stands out is that military forces can not only be cruel, but may lackall common sense and surrender to the obedience of a greater power (in this case that of the United States) without squeaking. In Memoirs of a Killer, for example, small-town policemen use confessions via torture not only because of a context of widespread violence (the film takes place during a right-wing dictatorship suffered by South Korea in the 1980s), but because they lack too much intelligence, and even in Okja the main villains present theself as a set of grotesque people who end up being overtaken in cunning by a teenage girl.
Of course, so much emphasis on the improbability or ignorance of certain characters results in more than one occasion when Bong's cinema uses, and much, satire and humor. But it is also true that the stupidity or ignorance of some of his characters is not only comical but also harmful and tragic. And this is where we enter one of the most amazing features of its cinema: its unpredictability. Whoever enters Bong Joon-Ho's world enters a universe where it seems that anything can happen. His cinema is rich in narrative twists, and abrupt record changes that make it quickly move from the comical to the terrible. However, the interesting thing about your cinema is that these record changes, while looking rough at first glance, end up revealing as logical when you review the film or even finish thinking about it. I mean, Bong's cinema may be unpredictable, but this unpredictability is never free. Deep down, it ends up being a hopeful consequence, sometimes even logical both by the environment in which their characters live and by their own decisions.
"Parasite" could perfectly be a popular American, French or Argentine film. It does not belong to indie cinema (independent and low budget); on the contrary, it has so far raised about $140 million, and goes for much more
Parasite is a perfect example of the latter aspect. Its plot revolves around a marginal family group in South Korea that uses the scam to gradually inhabit the home of a wealthy family. Their strategy will be that, progressively, each family member is occupying a different position, both from the servitude and the particular teaching staff of his children. At some point, Parasite is thematically twinned with two particularly resonant American films from last year: Us, by Jordan Peele, and especially Joker, by Todd Phillips. All these feature films have in common a similar idea: to present ourselves with a society divided into two very marked social classes, of which the lowest are furious and eager to occupy more privileged places, and the highest completely ignorant of what's happening with the most unfortunate sectors.
However, there is one thing that makes Parasite very different from the other two: people who occupy privileged places are not shown at any time with contempt. Their petty attitudes, while they may exist, not necessarily make them horrible villains or even bad people, but simply people who were lucky enough to be born in peaceful places where they could build a much better future. In any case, what gave them that privileged life is a world surrounded by a bubble of happiness that turned them into very naive people tocertain things, which do not know who are the people who entered your home or fully know each corner of your own home.
I KEPT READING
The "Parasite" event: why the South Korean film could kick the board on Oscarnight
"Parasite": aspirations, wild capitalism and the brilliant portrait of a social carnage
"Camila" at the Oscars: A priest's forbidden love with a young aristocrat that marked an era
 Load-Date: February 9, 2020

 

