


Review: Critics: Releases: DVD OF THE WEEK: Its Seoul destroying: The Host 2006, 15, Optimum £ 17.99
The Observer (London)
March 4, 2007

 Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved
 
Section: OBSERVER REVIEW ARTS PAGES; Pg. 18
Length: 311 words
Byline: MARK KERMODE
Body




Last year saw the UK release of Gojira (Godzilla) in its original 1954 Japanese cut, revealing a subtextual depth and philosophical melancholy absent from the bastardised US version of this seminal creature-feature. The ghost of Gojira hangs heavy over The Host , in which South Korean wunderkind Bong Joon-ho unleashes a rampaging monster from the polluted waters of the River Han in the capital, Seoul.
Like its thematic predecessor, The Host was inspired by a real-life news story - the case of Albert McFarland, a US forces mortuary attendant in Korea, who was reported to have dumped toxic waste down a drain leading to the Han in July 2000. In Bong's typically off-kilter nightmare, a mutant is duly spawned which attacks local people, providing much eye-popping, monster-munching fun, alongside the usual baffling blend of tragicomic human interest.
According to Bong, the inspiration for The Host ranged from a childhood fascination with the Loch Ness monster to an admiration for M Night Shyamalan's Signs, an alien invasion thriller. 'My film is a kidnap movie,' says Bong, 'about a family trying to get their daughter back from a kidnapper who happens to be a monster.'
This polymorphous approach to the genre is typical of a director who constantly leaves his audience uncertain whether to laugh, cry or scream - more often than not, the only answer is to do all three. This dual-disc DVD comes with umpteen scenes that were deleted from the final cut, storyboard footage, special-effects breakdowns and behind-the-scenes featurettes in which the cast and crew remember the stinking horrors of filming in the Han sewer system. Bong is gung-ho throughout, happy to get his hands dirty - and his shins bloody - as he throws himself into the production. Along with the weirdly wonderful Memories of Murder , this confirms Bong as a bona fide movie-making maestro.
 Load-Date: March 5, 2007

 

