


'The Host' brings black voice to monster film
University Wire
March 9, 2007 Friday

 Copyright 2007 Washington Square News via U-Wire
Section: FILM REVIEW
Length: 606 words
Byline: By Patrick Keene, Washington Square News; SOURCE: NYU
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body




"The Host" is going to appeal to you whether you want it to or not. Mixing elements of horror, science fiction, action, comedy, family and political drama, this film stops at nothing to please its audience -- and that's a good thing. The new film from the incredibly successful Korean director Bong Joon-Ho ("Memories of Murder") is a monster of a movie, and American audiences might not be ready.
The movie begins with an environmental hazard that creates an enormous monster which proceeds to crawl out of the Han River and eat people. Gang-Du Park, the owner of a small snack bar and one of the laziest movie heroes of all time, is forced into action when the monster carries his daughter away. He enlists the help of his "loser family," as the director lovingly refers to them, and they set out to find the girl. Unfortunately, the government descends upon the city to quarantine a virus related to the monster, impeding the family's progress more than the monster itself.
You may not realize it from the above description, but this movie is really funny. It has an absurdist sense of humor that can be really jarring if you are not ready for it. Whereas an American monster movie might have a few jokes in it, this film has full-on set pieces of insanity. Some of the highlights early on include a memorial scene that degrades into a mass tantrum of grief and a containment unit that could be easily confused for a body bag. The humor is dark and mostly aimed at the government's heartlessness in dealing with its citizens, and the family's general ineptitude in dealing with life.
Bong credits images and news reports of SARS and the misinformation surrounding the WMDs in Iraq as inspirations for his movie. The film even flirts with anti-Americanism in its depiction of American imperialism. American military troops threaten to spray "Agent Yellow" in an effort to kill off the monster, not caring that every other living thing will also be killed. The initial polluting of the river is actually based on a real event that occurred in Korea after an American military official forced his workers to pour toxic waste down kitchen sinks in the sewer system. There is no out-and-out political message here, but the movie definitely offers you something more than mindless entertainment. The best monster movies are never really about monsters. Be it the fears of atomic power in "Godzilla" and half a dozen giant animal movies or the Sept. 11 hysteria and paranoia in Steven Spielberg's "War of the Worlds," the best monster scares usually come wrapped in political commentary. In fact, Joon-Ho references Spielberg's work "before E.T." and American cinema of the '70s as having relevance to his take on genre entertainment. This movie definitely has a connection to "Jaws," claims Joon-Ho, as he uses the similar themes of "confusion and group hysteria" to create a panicked world for his characters to inhabit rather than relying on the monster.
Don't worry, though, it is a monster movie, and the monster is pretty cool. Although it is mostly created through CGI, it's CGI from the people who worked on "King Kong" and "Sin City," so it's sleek, realistic and allows for one or two awesome flips. (Speaking of monsters and American imperialism, the remake rights have already been bought by Universal Studios.) The depiction of the family and the humor are so different from American genre entertainment that it seems, like most Asian films, impossible to translate this to an American setting. So go see "The Host" before something akin to the American "Godzilla" is unleashed upon us all.
(C) 2007 Washington Square News via U-WIRE
 Load-Date: March 9, 2007

 

