


From 'Parasite' to 'Minari', South Korea conquered the world in the pandemic
CE Noticias Financieras English
April 18, 2021 Sunday

 Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 2203 words
Body




[summary] From "Parasite" to "Minari," South Korean films, songs and series broke through borders and won audiences and awards around the world during the pandemic. Motivated by this strength, reporter tells of his immersion in the cultural life of the country and the experience of learning Korean in quarantine.
      
At the beginning of last year, the prospects of a sweeping "Parasite" oscar win were similar to that of me learning to speak Korean -it would be cool if it happened, but unlikely. A Korean film had never received an award nomination before, and the favorite of that edition was the war epic "1917". However, Bong Joon-ho came out with four trophies, including best picture and director.
Little has remained the same in the world since then. Declared a month after the awards, the Covid-19 pandemic stopped everything: globo soap operas, the Olympics, dreams of traveling on vacation. However, south Korea's cultural industry has not been slowed down, which has only been celebrating since last year.
The ball of the time are the six nominations of "Minari" to the Oscars. Although the film is American-its director, Lee Isaac Chung, born in the United States, the son of immigrants-is almost all spoken in Korean.
For the film, Steven Yeun and Youn Yuh-Jung compete, respectively, for best actor and supporting actress, an unheard-of fact for artists of Asian origin at the awards. Youn is also the favorite, having won the award of the actors' union in the USA and the Bafta, the English Oscar.
In film, TV and music, last year Korea has not stopped pasting stickers on its album of exploits: first Grammy nomination, with the band BTS; first Korean song to reach the top of the Billboard chart, with "Dynamite", sung in English by BTS; first song to reach the top of the Billboard chart sung in Korean, with "Life Goes On", by the same group.
The list of records is also great: according to ifpi (International Federation of the Phonographic Industry), BTS was the world sales champion in 2020. What about the best-selling record? "Map of the Soul: 7", also of them. Last Monday (12), "Dynamite" reached 1 billion views on YouTube, the third time a video of the group reaches this mark.
This cultural strength was key to another unlikely event a year ago: I decided to learn Korean. Social isolation seemed like a unique opportunity to do something unthinkable under normal circumstances-to study a language that did not adopt the Latin alphabet.
Until then, almost nothing knew about South Korea. For years I thought k-pop was just a network of fried chicken restaurants in São Paulo, not the famous one, as I discovered later, Korean pop music genre. The scale swung into the language, however, because of "Parasite". Although he didn't see opportunities to use the language in practice, he could take advantage of quarantine to see other Bong Joon-ho films.
Studying the language only with the help of the internet over the last year has proved, at the same time, a much more difficult and much easier endeacity than I imagined.
On the one hand, if learning English is like starting to ride a bike, learning Korean is being able to piroulate on a bicicross circuit. While the prayers in Portuguese are formed by subject, verb and object, in Korean the object comes before, the verb at the end and the subject often does not even give the faces.
On the other hand, I have noticed that Korea has not been standing out in the cultural scene for nothing. The offer of content in the language is immense, and the country's production scheme seems to have been thought for export.
This is particularly clear in the k-pop industry. In many ways, Korean boybands and girlbands are very fond of Western ones. The groups have members of complementary personalities, present elaborate choreographies, and the releases of records are accompanied by visual changes.
One important difference, however, is the level of accessibility and the amount of content. While American stars such as Beyoncé seem almost unattainable, Korean artists share with fans the minutiae of their work processes and their lives, albeit with a lot of curatorship.
In the first season of the pandemic, when staying at home was still new, musicians like Chris Martin and John Legend made lives to entertain their fans. Watching these broadcasts gave the impression that, yes, stars are like us, and we had a sense of community in the midst of isolation.
In Korea, this power of rapprochement of lives has long been used. V Live allows celebrities to create channels to make live streams, responding to real-time comments. The biggest one, as you can imagine, is BTS, with more than 27 million subscribers who see the band members playing guitar, having lunch or simply doing nothing.
Each anniversary of the singers is celebrated in front of the cameras, each achievement is celebrated with fans. Thus, the audience gets the feeling that they know rm, Jin, Suga, J-Hope, Jimin, V and Jungkook, the band members. And it's a huge audience: in March, a live of Jungkook had over 22 million simultaneous views.
To reach international visitors, V Live also provides subtitles in more than ten languages, including Portuguese and Korean itself, making it a great ally of the language student.
One of the great difficulties in studying the language on your own is the lack of conversation-talking to the dog in Korean was my only alternative, but the advance was nil. Audios made for students, in turn, are artificial, and not all Korean productions on Netflix come with the option of language subtitles.
The lives were the outlet and proved to be a powerful entry drug for k-pop addiction. In a few months I went from "what is BTS?" to "one of them is allergic to potatoes". Jumping from lives to other content was easy, as Korean artists continued to produce during the pandemic, as if nothing had changed.
Part of this is due to the fact that, although vaccination there is also delayed, Korea faced Covid-19 faster than the rest of the world in general, conducting mass tests from the beginning. Thus, it allowed artists to work even in the sharpest periods of the pandemic in the world.
Another determining factor was the adaptability. Each year, for example, the BAND BTS records a reality tour in a different country. As now it was no longer possible, they filmed the isolated singers in the field and released the series "In the Soop". Recordings of a tour became a film and, since they could not perform in person at the Grammys, they replicated in Seoul the theater in which the award was awarded.
In addition, k-pop took the shows to the computer. And not in a stool and guitar scheme: without being able to do a world tour, the female band Blackpink promoted in January a large-scale virtual presentation, with multiple costume changes and pyrotechnics.
Same thing did the BTS. To see one of his virtual shows, with simultaneous translation, 756,000 fans from more than 100 countries bought tickets starting at US$26.
Using these tools, Korea has managed to circumvent obstacles faced by artists who do not speak English in the pursuit of global success. American radio stations are still reluctant to play k-pop, which seemed to be an insurmountable barrier for the genre to reach the top of the Billboard chart. The fan downloads are so many, though, that BTS has succeeded.
This success did not go unnoticed by the Western entertainment industry. From one year to now, it is common to see k-pop stars on American television shows or doing collaborations with artists in the country.
In 2020, the Blackpink quartet recorded "Sour Candy" with Lady Gaga and "Ice Cream" with Selena Gomez. One of the group's singers, Rosé, also became this year the first Korean artist to perform alone on Jimmy Kimmel's traditional American talk show.
And there are deeper cooperations between Korea and the United States underway. In February, Korean entertainment conglomerate HYBE, responsible for BTS, announced a partnership with Universal Music to "rewrite the history of world music."
Together, companies will create a boyband with selected members at global auditions. While Americans will be responsible for music production, marketing and distribution, Koreans will be given the selection and training of singers, as well as the production of content for fans.
This month, HYBE also acquired the company Ithaca Holdings, which manages the careers of the likes of Justin Bieber, Ariana Grande and Demi Lovato. Bang Si-Hyuk, founder of HYBE, said companies willwork together to "transcend borders and break cultural barriers."
Scooter Braun, leader of Ithaca Holdings and one of the most influential names in The American industry, added: "Global opportunities for artists will grow exponentially with this partnership. It's an opportunity for us to make history, innovate even more in the music industry and revolutionize the game."
Similar movement takes place in the audiovisual. According to CNN, Netflix will nearly double its budget for producing original content in Asia, especially in Korea. The platform doesn't reveal audience numbers, but South Korean series like "Itaewon Class," "Kingdom," "All Right Not To Be Normal," as well as bombing on Twitter, have won rave reviews in the U.S. media -the latter two were cited by The New York Times among the best international series of 2020.
Last year, Netflix also began a partnership with Korean media company JTBC and producer Studio Dragon for distribution and co-production of series.
On Apple TV, it is in pre-production "Pachinko", a book-based series of the same name that tells the saga of a Korean family for generations. With international cast, it will be spoken in Korean, English and Japanese.
Since there is no release date yet, I can dream that, until then, I will understand about 70% of the dialogues. Learning Korean -or at least starting with-was a roller coaster that accompanied the pandemic. In the first few weeks, when staying at home it seemed like something out of this world, but fleeting, it was reasonably simple.
Several sites teach the alphabet, consisting of 21 vowels and 19 consonants, and on YouTube you can learn to emit the sounds that do not exist in the Portuguese language -in Korean there are no sounds of F or V, but there are many others that we do not do (it is easy, for example, to say "defecate" instead of "buy", which makes it difficult to acquire pants).
The following months of learning grammar were an escalation. For six months, studying one hour a day, nine levels of the wonderful (and free, basic) course on the Talk To Me In Korean website were completed-a total of 270 lessons.
There was also the period of the decoreba, in which daily he recorded in a slate six new words and recorded the memorized in an application. At night, he recited verbs until he got to sleep.
Without the series, the music and the movies, however, it would have been impossible. From them I learned that in Korea, you don't have your birthday, but on New Year's Eve, and that everyone is born a year old-so there you are one or two years older than here. I also found that it is common for couples with children to call themselves "So-and-So's father" or "Sicrano's mother", rather than using their own names. That made it easier.
Korea is well known to the potential of its culture to popularize the country around the world. HYBE, for example, has launched with other institutions the Learn Korean course with BTS, which uses group videos to teach the language at international universities.
This wave also caused internal changes in the country. In December, a law was passed that allows popstars to delay their military enlistment by two years, mandatorily complied with by all men up to the age of 28 -age of the oldest member of BTS, Jin.
Despite recent achievements, however, the Korean cultural wave has challenges ahead. Blackpink fans, for example, were disappointed not to see the band on the list of nominees for the Grammy reveal, although the quartet sets a record after record.
The barrier of subtitles, cited by filmmaker Bong Joon-ho in one of his awards speeches for "Parasite" last year, also persists. Even "Minari" was affected: United States production and story about the American dream, could not compete as best drama film at the Golden Globes.
Speaking in Korean, it was embedded in the foreign film category, causing discussion on the internet, since feature films such as "Babel" and "Inglório bastards" also contained dialogues in more than one language and disputed the main categories.
On Oscar Sunday, the 25th, I'll be, like a year ago, rooting for Korea. The chance of another big win may be minimal, but if we've learned anything in the last year it's that the unlikely often happens. With the Covid-19, it seems that everything repeats itself as tragedy and as a farce, but there are also some small gains.
If the latest results are indicative of what Korea can do in the future, I may have more opportunities than I thought to put into practice the language learned. In the end, Korean culture and language have been a good mental escape valve for the past 12 months, but I hope that next time I can learn a new language without going through a pandemic.
 Load-Date: April 19, 2021

 

