


Parasite Review
Newstex Blogs 
411mania.com
October 11, 2019 Friday 6:07 AM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 999 words
Byline: JeffreyHarris
Body




Oct 11, 2019( 411mania.com: http://411mania.com Delivered by Newstex)  Directed By: Bong Joon-ho Written By: Bong Joon-ho, Han Jin-won Runtime: 132 minutes MPAA Rating: Rated R  Choi Woo-sik - Kim Ki-woo Kang-ho Song - Kim Ki-taek Park So-dam - Kim Ki-jung Jang Hye-jin - Kim Chong-sook Jo Yeo-jeong - Park Yeon-kyo Jung Ziso - Park Da-Hye Lee Sun-kyun - Park Dong-ik Jung Hyun-jun - Park Da-song Lee Jeong-eun - Moon-gwang Park Seo-joon - Min The latest film for Snowpiercer director[1] Bong Joon-ho, Parasite, might very well be his best film to date. Parasite is a thought-provoking film that's part dark comedy, part family drama and part thriller. It's not really a singular genre film, but all these elements compliment each other to deliver a surprisingly intense and shocking cinematic experience.  Meet the Kim family. 
They are a hard luck, destitute family of four. Living in an impoverished basement in a South Korean slum, they are forced to glum off of other people's WiFi networks and take menial side jobs folding pizza boxes to bring in a pittance of money. The family's eldest son Ki-woo (Choi) failed to make it into university, but what he lacks in book smarts, he makes up for in street smarts. He's a natural con artist and has the gift of gab. However, an opportunity soon falls into Ki-woo's lap in the form of a job recommendation. His best friend Min (Park Seo-joon) is traveling abroad and wants Ki-woo to take over tutoring one of his well-to-do teen students, Park Da-hye (Jung). Min-Hyuk has a romantic interest in the high-school sophomore Da-Hye, and basically wants Ki-woo to watch over her and keep away potential suitors while he's abroad. His master plan is to start dating Da-hye when she enters university. Min-Hyuk having trust in a scam artist like Ki-woo was probably the biggest mistake in his life. With the help of his sister Ki-jung's (Park So-dam) exceptional forgery skills, Ki-woo is easily able to manipulate himself into the rich, well-to-do Park household as the new English tutor for Da-hye. Da-hye's mother, Mrs. Park (Jo Yeo-jeong), is a flighty, snooty simp. She makes for an easy mark for the Kim family to assert themselves into the lives of the Park homestead.  After Ki-woo hatches a master plan, he's able to manipulate Ki-jung into the Park home as the art tutor for for the Park's youngest child, Da-song (Jung Hyun-joon). Next up, the kids trick the Park family patriarch, (Lee Sun-kyun), to fire his driver and hire their dad Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho). After that, it's the family housekeeper, Moon-gwang (Lee Jeong-eun), who gets ousted and replaced by the Kim kids' mother, Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin). However, Ki-woo's carefully layered plan is nothing more than a house of cards, and a dark secret within the Park household threatens to shatter the Kim's ticket to money and luxury.  Parasite is a brilliantly shot movie. It's very much a product of its country of origin. As a result, it has a style that is both unique and refreshing compared to Hollywood films. It's darkly comedic, but it's not exactly an irreverent comedy. Other times, the film is darkly tragic and surprisingly poignant.  The lengths to which the Kim family goes to con and manipulate the Park family are both shocking and at times, borderline detestable. The one thing that keeps the Kim family from being outright unlikable is that there is still a true familial bond between them. The Kim family is made up down-and-out scoundrels, and yet, they still love, respect, and appreciate each other. Meanwhile, the white-collar Park family members are more self-obsessed with their status, image and wealth. If anything, it appears their wealth and status has made them soft and gullible. There doesn't appear to be any genuine love between them. It's evidence that while material wealthy might bring certain comforts and convenience, it doesn't bring true love or happiness. The Parks look down at others of a lower social standing.  This is a remarkable film about the rich vs. the poor and the dynamics therein. While the Parks are generally the protagonists of the story, they are not good people. One imagines if Ki-woo, who comes off as quite brilliant, would likely be better served investing those talents into more legitimate pursuits. His sister Ki-jung is equally brilliant and clearly a gifted graphic artist. It's bizarre these two couldn't apply themselves in school or make it into university. Perhaps that's either a flaw in the storytelling or a commentary on the South Korean academic system.  The performances in the main cast are impeccably performed. Song Kang-ho as Kim Ki-taek really steals the show with some surprisingly dramatic and bittersweet moments. While Ki-woo is the basic protagonist of Parasite, Ki-taek is really the heart and soul of what this movie is about. The second and third act features plot twists that are both surprising and shockingly satisfying. They are twists the audience will not see coming, but they make complete and total sense. Those are the best kind of cinematic 'gotcha' moments. Bong Joon-ho and cinematographer Hong Kyung-pyo construct some beautiful imagery. The film is wonderfully shot. The shots are very straightforward, crisp and clear but contain all sorts of compelling imagery within them. The third act also features some quick, surprising, shocking bits of violence and gore that are rather Tarantino-esque. Parasite pulls no punches in terms of its visuals or narratives.  While many are throwing around the word masterpiece for this film, it might be premature to call it that. Bong Joon-ho has easily surpassed his previous work in Snowpiercer and created something that's both darkly humorous, compelling, dramatic, poignant and bittersweet all the at the same time. Parasite is a true cinematic experience[2] that will leave the audience with a lot to chew during the ride home. [ 1]: https://411mania.com/movies/snowpiercer-review/ [ 2]:            https://www.parasite-movie.com/ 
 Load-Date: October 11, 2019

 

