


Oscars 2020 live: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite wins Best Picture, Joaquin Phoenix wins Best Actor
Hindustan Times
February 10, 2020 Monday

 Copyright 2020 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 310 words
Dateline: India 
Body




India, Feb. 10 -- Bong Joon Ho's Parasite made history, Brad Pitt won his first acting Oscar, Laura Dern collected best supporting actress and Joaquin Phoenix won the best actor Oscar at the 92nd Academy Awards.
Bong's South Korean class satire took four big awards: best picture, best director, best original screenplay and best international film. All were the first Oscars for a Korean film. Bong and co-writer Han Jin Won became the first Asian writers to take the screenplay prize. Parasite became the first non-English language film to win best picture.
As it has for much of awards season, Parasite appeared the favourite in the room. A standing ovation greeted Bong's win for international film. "I am ready to drink tonight," said Bong to roars from the crowd. Unexpectedly called up again for best director, Bong saluted his fellow nominees, particularly Martin Scorsese, and concluded: "Now I'm ready to drink until tomorrow."
Also read: Parasite movie review: Bong Joon-ho's sensational masterpiece is the first great film of the new decade
As it did last year, the annual Dolby Theatre ceremony kicked off without a host. Janelle Monae opened the show entering a Mister Rogers set and singing A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood.
"I'm so proud to be standing here as a black queer artist telling stories,' said Monae. 'Happy Black History Month."
Two former Oscar hosts, Chris Rock and Steve Martin, dropped in to supply an opening monologue. Martin called it "an incredible demotion." Martin noted that something was missing from this year's directing nominees. "Vaginas!' Rock replied.
Follow all the LIVE updates from the 92nd Academy Awards here:
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Hindustan Times. For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com
 Load-Date: February 10, 2020

 

