


Trump blasts best-picture Oscar for South Korean film Parasite
China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)
February 21, 2020 Friday

 Copyright 2020 China Daily Information. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 428 words
Body




A still image from the film "Parasite". (PHOTO / MTIME VIA CHINADAILY.COM.CN)
COLORADO SPRINGS - US President Donald Trump on Thursday ridiculed the historic best-picture Oscar win for South Korean film Parasite, telling a campaign rally he wished for the return of Hollywood classics like 1939's Gone with the Wind.
How bad were the Academy Awards this year? ... We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?
Donald Trump, US president
Parasite, a dark social satire about the gap between rich and poor in modern Seoul, earlier this month became the first non-English-language film to take Hollywood's top prize. It also won three other Oscars - best director and original screenplay for Bong Joon-ho and best international feature film.
"How bad were the Academy Awards this year?" asked Trump at the rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Imitating an Academy Awards presenter, he said: "And the winner is a movie from South Korea.
"What the hell was that all about? We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?" Trump added.
"Can we get Gone With the Wind back, please?" he said to thousands of supporters, referring to the film about the Civil War-era South that won the best-picture Oscar 80 years ago.
US President Donald Trump gestures as he addresses a "Keep America Great" rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Feb 20, 2020. (JIM WATSON / AFP)
Trump also dismissed actor Brad Pitt, who won an Oscar for best supporting actor for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Pitt said in accepting the award that he got more time to speak, 45 seconds, than former national security adviser John Bolton received at Trump's Senate impeachment trial.
"I was never a big fan of his. He's a little wise guy," Trump said of Pitt.
Trump, who is on a four-day Western US swing, gave a harsh review as well of Wednesday night's Democratic presidential debate, particularly the performance of former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who the president said had a ragged night.
"I was going to send him a note saying: 'It's not easy doing what I do, is it?' It's not easy, Mike. It's not easy for any of them," he said of the contenders for the Democratic nomination to face him in November's election.
Trump is set to return to Washington after speaking at a rally in Las Vegas on Friday.
https://s3.amazonaws.com/syndigateimages/syndigate/imgs/498/1495/78/158225804014.jpeg
https://s3.amazonaws.com/syndigateimages/syndigate/imgs/498/1495/10/158225804116.jpeg
 Load-Date: February 21, 2020

 

