


Movie Review: The Host, A Big Monster Movie With A Big Heart
Blogcritics.org Video
February 21, 2007 Wednesday 12:59 PM EST

 Copyright 2007 Newstex LLC
All Rights Reserved
Newstex Web Blogs
Copyright 2007 Blogcritics.org Video
Length: 470 words
Byline: Danny Smooth
Body




  Feb. 21, 2007 (Blogcritics.org delivered by Newstex) -- 
 This South Korean monster movie swept the nation and now is on the brink of being released in North America. Since its release last year, The Host has been praised by critics at the Cannes Film Festival and has made legions of die-hard fans.The Host is inspired by the real story of illegal chemical dumping in the Han River, the river that runs right through Seoul. The fear that the toxins in the water would have dangerous effects on the public prompted the writers to concoct this tale.
 In the film, the chemicals mutate the marine life of the river and consequently, a large fish-like monster arises from the deep. But this is not the typical 'monster runs amok in a large metropolis' film; at its core there's a family drama with some laughs and an environmental message.The Park family, proprietors of a small riverside restaurant/convenience store, who bicker amongst themselves constantly, are bound together tightly when the young Hyun Seo, daughter of Gang Du, is captured by the monster and dragged to its underwater lair. They beg the military and the police to help them search for the missing child, but they are met with apathy and are dismissed. So, against all odds, the family break the security cordon around the area to search for her themselves.
 Director Joon-ho Bong has made a decent drama that doesn't get too sappy and at the same time a decent monster movie that doesn't go over the top with cheesy effects and dialog. Instead of making the movie dead serious, it has elements of comedy which make it much more appealing and interesting to watch. The monster plays a large role, but the family rallying together takes the bulk of the film. We get to see the monster relatively early on in the film and the special effects don't disappoint.The cast is made up of some veteran actors from Korean cinema and television: Kang So Song plays the lazy but good-hearted Gang Du; Ah-Sung Ko plays the cheerful, Hyun Seo; Hie-Bong Byeon plays the crotchety old grandpa, Hie-bong; Du-na Bae plays the athletic sister of Gang Du, Nam Joo; Hae-il Park plays the dyspeptic activist, Nam Il. 
 There is a small cameo from character actor Paul Lazar (of Mickey Blue Eyes, and the remake of The Manchurian Candidate), who plays a HAZMAT doctor who wants to help the Park family. He provides a ray of sunshine from the American involvement in the catastrophe. Unlike his counterparts, he shows real concern for the Park family and wishes he could help.The film is decent entertainment during its two-hour run time. It doesn't push any boundaries or break any new ground but it works well inside the genre. It has cheesy moments, heartfelt moments, and there are a few good laughs, so check it out when it's released on March 9, 2007.
 Watch the trailer. 
 Notes



The views expressed on blogs distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors ("Blogs via Newstex") are solely the author's and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Posts from such authors are provided "AS IS", with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Blogs via Newstex are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. No content on such Blogs via Newstex is "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such blogs, nor take responsibility for any aspect of such blog content. All content on Blogs via Newstex shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees will be offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else offered on such Blogs via Newstex. Reader's comments reflect their individual opinion and their publication within Blogs via Newstex shall not infer or connote an endorsement by Newstex or its re-distributors of such reader's comments or views. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete posts and comments at its and their sole discretion.  
Load-Date: February 21, 2007

 

