


"Don't get on the cart...": Chilean vineyard held appearance on "Parasite" and touted it
CE Noticias Financieras English
February 12, 2020 Wednesday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 448 words
Body




A widespread trolley received the Viña Morandé,which distributes wines from Chile to more than 40 countries worldwide. All this for boasting that he appeared for a few seconds in the recently Oscar-winning film Parasite.

"At Viña Morande we are proud to be mentioned in Parasite, the first non-English language film to win an Oscar Thank you Bong Joon-Ho! for these second spawns!" said the company's instagram.

After publication, they did not take into account the wave of trolling they received from netizens, so they had to delete the comments on that social network. However, the taunts continued on twitter.
Teasing
"The reference to Viña Morandé is so tiny, so little, that it does not give even for reference, it is like the appearance of Viña San Pedro in the film El Tiempo de Kim Ki Duk", was one of the comments of that social network.

"How do you say victory cart in Korean?" ironed another. The reviews focused on the context in which the wine boxes are displayed was achieved in the film with the aim of accentuating the difference in classes.

View this post on Instagram

At Viña Morande we are proud to be mentioned in Parasite, the first non-English language film to win an Oscar Thank you Bong Joon-Ho! for these seconds of appearance! ——————————————————————- Viña Morande is proud to be mentioned at Parasite, the First non-English movie to win an Oscar Thanks Bong Joon-Ho! for these seconds of appearance!

A post shared by Viña Morandé (@vinos_morande) on Feb 11, 2020 at 9:59am PST


The Morandé vineyard and the Chile brand trying to light Chilean wines appear on Parasite it's like Hugo Boss came out saying "look, we're in a film about Nazis ????????????????????." I'm overwhelmed by the deep stupidity that leads them to BE PARASITE PARASITE STONTHE WEA.

— baby joe pesci ???? (@youngcuma) February 12, 2020


The reference to Viña Morandé is so tiny, so little, that it does not give even for reference, it is like the appearance of Viña San Pedro in the film El Tiempo de Kim Ki Duk. pic.twitter.com/tkkz5ubiaw

— Angel Diaz ???? #YoVotoApruebo (@maniacotv) February 12, 2020


Viña Morandé: "I tell you that I appeared on Parasite, look in the credits"

Parasite: "Goodbye friends hahahaha"

VM: "There's my name look..."

Twitter: "It looks more like Morel... Wines"

Instagram: "No, says Maluenda... Enrique Maluenda"

#FelizMiercoles pic.twitter.com/46lCV84qyO

— Bety Simonson (@bety_simonson) February 12, 2020


Please don't be modest ???? we all know that Parásitos won thanks to Viña Morandé pic.twitter.com/qxcJU7OMqb

— Lolo (@lorefurche) February 12, 2020



The post "Don't get on the cart...": Chilean vineyard celebrated appearance on "Parasite" and the trolley appeared first on La Cuarta.
 Load-Date: February 13, 2020

 

