


The Host
Video Business
June 11, 2007

 Copyright 2007 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TIPSHEET; Horror; Pg. 6
Length: 294 words
Byline: By Irv Slifkin
Body




MAGNOLIA
Street: July 24
Prebook: June 26
> Unusual foreign mix of monster movie and family dramedy.
The most successful and expensive Korean film ever produced received terrific reviews and brisk arthouse business in the U.S. And it's easy to see why, for this is not only a dazzling technical achievement but a surprisingly complex affair spiked with political satire and pathos that also happens to be quite funny. Think Jaws  meets Little Miss Sunshine , and you get an idea of what to expect from a movie wherein a teenage girl is wrested away from her family snack shop near the Han River by a gigantic amphibious creature. The girl's fractured family-which includes a slacker father and an aunt who happens to be an archery expert-has to put aside their differences to track her down before it's too late. At the same time, the government claims the beast is the product of a mysterious virus and begins putting citizens into quarantine, which puts a big crimp in the clan's rescue plans. Director Joon Ho-Bong (Memories of Murder ) does a miraculous job juggling all the seemingly disparate elements.
Shelf Talk : Word-of-mouth is definitely in this title's favor, but it's up to retailers whether they want to market it as a foreign film. The precedent for the genre can be seen in such titles as Brotherhood of the Wolf  and such Asian imports as Oldboy  and the Ringu  films, so retailers may want to have The Host  follow in those films' footsteps.
Horror, R (mature themes, language, violence), 119 min.; DVD $26.99, Collector's Edition DVD $29.99, Collector's BD or HD $34.99
Extras: deleted scenes, commentary; Collector's Edition also has making-of featurettes, storyboards, gag reel, casting tapes
Director: Joon Ho-Bong
First Run: L, March 2007, $2.1 mil.
 Load-Date: June 12, 2007

 

