


Reading Eagle, Pa., Dvd Review column: Korean sci-fi film 'The Host' has plenty of fun at government's expense
Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)
June 14, 2007 Thursday

 Copyright 2007 Reading Eagle
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
Length: 492 words
Byline: Tony Lucia, Reading Eagle, Pa.
Body




Jun. 14--DVD : "The Host Director : Bong Joon-ho Starring : Song Kang-ho, Byeon Hie-bong, Ko Ah-sung Running time : 119 minutes Rated R List price : $9.99
The movie (A-): Engaging the mind as well as jolting the nervous system, the best science fiction keeps your rapt attention while implanting some manner of social or political comment.
To wit, "The Host," by Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-ho, in which a monster, slithering out of the river into which the American military had dumped toxic chemicals a few years past, terrorizes a city, hungrily devouring those unlucky to be in its path.
But, this movie has much more on its mind than environmental wrist-slapping.
Quicker than you can say "9/11," the government swings into action -- not to kill the creature, which develops an insatiable appetite for, um, Korean food, but using the attacks as an excuse to quarantine and impose martial law on the populace under the pretext that the monster is a host carrying a dangerous virus. Even though there is no such bug.
It's up to a decidedly unheroic -- in fact, close to idiotic -- family to track it through the city sewers, to rescue the child it's keeping as part of its food supply.
The lesson of Bong's droll, surprisingly funny thriller is that some distance -- actual and emotional -- is needed to appreciate the full extent of the assault on our civil liberties by those who are supposed to be protecting us from the evildoers; how easily fear, with the media's eager cooperation, can sell such constraints; and how surprisingly simple it is to divert the public's attention from a real threat to a fictional one.
Just substitute "War on Terror," "Osama," "Guantanamo," "Extraordinary Rendition" or "WMDs" for "Host" and you'll get the idea.
For the "I don't go to the movies to think" crowd, "The Host" more than gets the job done as a creature feature loaded with plenty of "ick" moments. One favorite: A crowd of people runs into a trailer to escape the thing, but it turns out it fits neatly into the box. Too bad the back door's locked!
Extras (D): "The Host" is available in any number of versions on import discs. The one I bought, on HKFlix.com, was Chinese (with English subtitles among the options) and had no extras. Others have plenty.
Overall (A-): No point in waiting around for any local venue to take a chance on something this cool when you can buy the disc for about the price of one ticket and turn your friends on to boot. "The Host" easily could be trimmed by 10 or 15 minutes, but that's my only quibble with this smart and scary little find.
To see more of the Reading Eagle, or to subscribe, go to http://www.readingeagle.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Reading Eagle, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.
 Load-Date: June 14, 2007

 

