


Parasite heads to HBO as a new limited series from original writer-director Bong Joon-ho and Adam McKay
MailOnline
January 9, 2020 Thursday 11:56 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TV&SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 426 words
Byline: Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com
Body




Just days after South Korean director Bong Joon Ho won the Best Foreign Language Picture for Parasite, he's taking the film to HBO for a new limited series.
HBO won a fierce bidding war for the rights to Parasite, beating out Netflix, according to The Hollywood Reporter. 
Bong will team up with Vice and The Big Short writer-director Adam McKay to adapt the original South Korean movie for an English-language limited series.
The original movie follows the impoverished Kim family (Song Kang-ho, Park So-dam, Choi Woo-sik and Jang Hye-jin), who slowly infiltrate the wealthy Park family (Lee Sun-kyun, Jo Yeu-jeong and Jung Ji-so).
The narrative weaves in a number of intricate twists with deadly consequences that explores the class system and elitism, and it's been an overwhelming critical favorite.
The film currently has a 99% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with just three negative reviews out of 349.
Aside from its Golden Globe win for Best Foreign Language Picture, Parasite was also nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay at the Globes.
It was also named the best film of the year by the National Board of Review, and given a special mention by the American Film Institute in their top 10 films of the year, 'designated for a work of excellence outside the Institute's criteria for American film.' 
Before it hit theaters, Parasite was named the unanimous winner of the prestigious Palme D'Or as the top film at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, and it has made dozens of critics' top 10 lists.
The film is also up for Best Ensemble at the SAG Awards, Best Screenplay at the Writers Guild of America Awards, Best Director at the Directors Guild of America Awards, Outstanding Performance by a Cast at the Screen Actors Guild Awards and many others.
It's considered to be a top contender for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar, and a possible Best Picture candidate as well when the nominations are announced January 13.
Parasite has earned $23.9 million at the domestic box office, an impressive figure considering it only played in 620 theaters at its highest rollout, with $130.9 million worldwide.
Both Bong and McKay will serve as executive producers alongside Dooho Choi, Miky Lee, Cho Young Ki and Francis Chung.
This project continues McKay's relationship with HBO, after he executive produced and directed the pilot episode for their current hit show Succession.
He's also developing a TV series about the 1980s 'Showtime' Los Angeles Lakers teams, and a limited series on Jeffrey Epstein as part of his five-year overall deal with the cable network. 
 Load-Date: January 10, 2020

 

