


More than a monster in deep with The Host
The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario)
April 12, 2007 Thursday
Final Edition

 Copyright 2007 Metroland Media Group Ltd All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS; Pg. E3
Length: 612 words
Byline: GEOFF PEVERE, Toronto Star
Body




The Host, a blockbusting South Korean monster movie featuring a giant killer amphibian with 10 legs and a face that might freak Mike Tyson, begins on a note of such bravura nuttiness you may be left wondering how the movie will ever recover
The amazing thing is that it does. Not fully, but close enough.
After we've learned that an autocratic American scientist (Scott Wilson) has ordered a couple of hundred gallons of formaldehyde dumped into Seoul's Han River (itself a long-standing source of environmental anxiety), a couple of fisherman pull a wee creature from the drink, get nipped, and toss it back in.
Cut to a brilliantly sunny day on the banks of the Han: kites are flying, children are romping, and workers enjoying lunch purchased from the ubiquitous snack stands.
Then somebody notices something odd under a bridge: a huge serpentine creature dangling like a large string of snot, which promptly slips into the water with the precision of an Olympic diver. When it makes its underwater approach to the shore where people are watching in idiot disbelief, somebody gets the bright idea to toss a beer can at the thing. This is how hell breaks loose.
In the ensuing rampage, the creature leaps from the water and clumsily -- almost drunkenly -- proceeds to eat everything it can suck up in its path. Loping along like a Ray Harryhausen-animated stop-action effect on downers, it chows down on the lunchtime crowd before snatching up schoolgirl Hyun-seo (Ko Ah-sung) with a deftly swiped tail before slipping back into the drink.
Needless to say, it is highly unusual for a creature in a creature feature to be so amply displayed with such unceremonious dispatch. No slow reveal here. Just in with the beer can and out with the monster. And almost as quickly as you can re-hinge your jaw, it's gone.
It's enough to leave you wondering whether what you've just seen is actually what this audaciously unconventional monster movie -- a blend of Godzilla, Scooby-Doo and George Romero's The Crazies -- considers the real monster. It isn't.
The youngest member of the profoundly dysfunctional and largely intellectually challenged Park family, young Hyuen-seo is soon the object of a stumbling but determined pursuit by her family: her dim-bulb but loving dad Gang-du (Song Kang-ho), her bickering aunt (Bae Du-na) and uncle (Park Hae-il), and long-suffering grandfather (Byeon Hie-bong).
While initially appearing as likely to succeed as the U.S. military in Iraq, the Parks do eventually transcend their considerable internal issues in an alternately comic and strangely heartfelt demonstration of family solidarity.
Then again, as Bong Joon-ho movie is so pumped to demonstrate, the Parks are all the Parks have got. As the monster triggers a national panic and as the American-backed officials begin rounding people up and stoking the fear factor to truly Homeland Security-esque proportions, The Host has shifted the focus of its horror almost entirely. Next to the rapidly collapsing social structure, the casual mistreatment of citizens and the obvious level of environmental neglect at work, the monster itself is, if not benign, at least comparatively harmless. If, that is, you can call a rampaging, huge, 10-legged carnivorous amphibian harmless.
Bravely shifting tones from the horrific to the slapstick and back again, Bong Joon-ho has made a movie that's comprised almost equally of family sitcom, political indictment, high-urban paranoia and maximum-geek, monster-movie delight.
The Host really should be seen before it gets remade for North American consumption.
REVIEW
The Host
Starring: Song Kang-ho, Park Hae-il
Director: Bong Joon-ho
14A; opens tomorrow at Princess.
 Load-Date: April 12, 2007

 

