


Cannes 2019: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite wins the Palme d'Or - as it happened; South Korean director takes home the top prize for his dark thriller, while Antonio Banderas wins best actor for Pain and GloryReaction: sorry they missed you, Tarantino but Cannes was right to celebrate Parasite
The Guardian(London)
May 25, 2019 Saturday 5:30 PM GMT

 Copyright 2019 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM; Version:10
Length: 4897 words
Byline: Gwilym Mumford
Body




block-time published-time 10.11pm BST 
 Au revoir!  
And Bong is whisked away from the press conference, and hopefully towards a bloody big victory party. 
With that, we're off too. Congratulations to Bong Joon-ho and all the winners at the 2019 Cannes film festival. And thanks to everyone who followed events at home. See you next year.
block-time published-time 10.02pm BST 
Someone asks Bong about how he comes up with his ideas.
"I write my scripts in the corner of a cafe and listen to the noises of people," he says. "That stimulates me."
block-time published-time 10.01pm BST 
A Deadline journo spices up an otherwise placid press conference by asking about a reference to North Korea in the film.
"In fact in the film you see a character who tries to imitate a North Korean presenter," Bong says. "You shouldn't construe it as a message against North Korea. It's just a small joke. Also there are a lot of comics in South Korea who make sketches on these topics. It's common in South Korea.
"I think if North Koreans see my film one day, I think they will laugh," he adds.
block-time published-time 9.55pm BST 
Bong says that Inarritu told him that "all the members of the jury unanimously agreed to give the Palme to Parasite." 
A real seal of approval, that, as in the past Cannes juries have struggled to come to unanimous decisions.
block-time published-time 9.51pm BST 
The man of the hour is here for his victor's press conference.
Interviewer Henri Behar opens by noting that Bong's win is a "historic moment" because he's the first Korean winner of the Palme.
Bong is asked what he would like to say to young directors in Korea. He replies that, "It's the 100th anniversary of cinema in Korea this year. I think that Cannes has given Korean cinema a great gift" by giving him the Palme.
block-time published-time 9.37pm BST 
More Bong news: he's just great, isn't he...
enltrlosing my mind over bong joon-ho's jolliness/comments in korean during PARASITE's standing ovation at #Cannes2019 and also that the first thing he said on-mic was "i'm very awkward"            #BongHive           pic.twitter.com/ZDOXpCO5ZP
 - karen han (@karenyhan) May 24, 2019
block-time published-time 9.34pm BST 
Beecham, by the way, is the first Brit to win best actress at Cannes since Kathy Burke for Nil By Mouth in 1997. At the time Burke was the third British winner in three years (after Helen Mirren and Brenda Blethyn), and we assumed that the sun would never set on our acting triumphs at Cannes. Then, presumably, they stopped giving us them to punish us for our hubris.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.38pm BST
block-time published-time 9.29pm BST 
Beecham is asked why British female actors like herself, Olivia Colman and Jodie Comer are having such success at awards ceremonies.
"I don't think it has anything to do with being British. I think Olivia Colman and Comer are fantastic actresses with brilliant scripts," she says.
And with that she's off
block-time published-time 9.27pm BST 
Beecham is asked why she isn't a fan of flowers, a nod presumably to her encounter with the nefarious plant from her film.
"Why do you think I don't like flowers?!" she says, in an upbraiding tone.
block-time published-time 9.23pm BST 
Emily Beecham is chatting now about her best actress win, which it seems she was pretty surprised by:
"I had a kind of inkling this morning because I had a phone call from a producer. I had to put my stuff in a backpack and get on a plane." 
block-time published-time 9.22pm BST 
More praise for Pedro from Banderas. He says that, "the award is for the character I played, and that is the alter-ego of Pedro Almodovar. There is something of him here."
Plenty of people here thought that Almodóvar would finally win the Palme tonight. He hasn't but Banderas's win will be some solace.
block-time published-time 9.20pm BST 
Bong's arrival in the press room was a bit of a rush. Usually the most exciting thing that happens in here is a delivery of new Nespresso capsules.
block-time published-time 9.17pm BST 
Antonio Banderas is now speaking at the press conference. He's asked if he's spoken to Almodóvar, who wasn't at the ceremony, about his win:
"We were texting this morning. He showed a lot of happiness for me. I thank him for the years, our movies together."
block-time published-time 9.14pm BST 
Exclusive: here's Bong in the press room with his Palme:
    Bong Joon-ho with his Palme d'Or. Photograph: Gwilym Mumford/The Guardian      
block-time published-time 9.02pm BST 
Bong's in the press room!!!! He's come in to huge cheers from the Korean journo contingent and is addressing them all at their table. Lovely stuff. 
block-time published-time 8.49pm BST 
So, another year without a female winner of the Palme d'Or, though there were individual prizes elsewhere for two of the four women directors appearing in competition. Céline Sciamma took home both the Queer Palm and the screenwriting prize for her luscious period drama Portrait of a Lady on Fire, while Mati Diop - on her Cannes debut, no less - took home the second biggest prize of the night, the Grand Prix.
Still one female Palme winner in 72 editions of the Cannes film festival remains a pretty striking statistic, and though Iñárritu is right to say that the decision to award the Palme must be made based on the films themselves, Cannes could perhaps give its jurors a few more directed by women to choose from: there were just 4 of 21 in this year's official selection. 
block-time published-time 8.36pm BST 
The press conferences are still rumbling on. We're now hearing from the Dardennes, who won the best director prize for their film Young Ahmed. It's an intriguing shift in direction from the pair - following a young Muslim schoolboy who is lured into extremism. "Our character excludes everybody who isn't as pure as he is," they say.
block-time published-time 8.27pm BST 
 Big night for Beecham  
While the lone British film in competition, Ken Loach's Sorry We Missed You, went home empty handed, there was a winner from these shores in the form of Little Joe star Emily Beecham. Viewers might have caught Beecham in the homegrown drama Daphne, where she played a self-destructive thirtysomething in the Fleabag mode. 
She also appeared in the slightly grim post-apocalyptic drama Into the Badlands, which I must concede I haven't seen but which the Guardian described as " absolutely bonkers... there is nothing else like it on television".
Anyway, this Cannes win is a big moment for an actor on the rise, and hopefully we'll see more of her soon.
block-time published-time 8.16pm BST 
The question readers at home are surely asking is 'when can I see Parasite?' Unlike Okja, Bong's new one won't be appearing on Netflix (and if it was it would have been excluded from the Cannes competition due to the festival's frosty relationship with the streaming giant).
Fear not though, Curzon have picked up UK and Ireland rights with a release date to be confirmed soon. Neon, meanwhile, have nabbed the North American rights with US and Canada release dates also still to be confirmed. 
Given that the film will surely be put forward as Korea's foreign language Oscar pick, you'd expect at least a US release date this year in order to meet Oscar qualification rules.
block-time published-time 8.07pm BST 
Peter Bradshaw has penned a reaction piece to this year's awards. He reckons Bong was a worthy winner, even if he was ever-so-slightly less enthusiastic about Parasite than other critics:
Korean film-maker Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is a gripping satirical parable of class, status and injustice - an invasion of the lifestyle snatchers that was widely compared to the Joseph Losey classic The Servant.
It is a handsomely made film, which runs as smoothly as a luxury car. I myself found myself thinking that I liked it a fraction less than Bong's other films, and other films in this Competition, but there is no doubt that it is an outstanding film.
 Related:  Sorry they missed you, Tarantino - but Cannes was right to celebrate Parasite
block-time published-time 8.00pm BST 
The jury press conference is over. To be honest it wasn't the most thrilling affair - certainly nothing to match 2017 when Jessica Chastain chucked a few grenades in the direction of the Cannes selection committee:
 Related:  Jessica Chastain: the portrayal of women in films is disturbing
block-time published-time 7.59pm BST 
Now Iñárritu is going out of his way to praise Elle Fanning, saying it was good to have the perspective of a millennial on the jury.
block-time published-time 7.57pm BST 
Elle Fanning is going out of her way to praise Mati Diop's Atlantique, which won the Grand Prix. "That film touched us to the very end".
block-time published-time 7.54pm BST 
Blimey - I've just realised that the only award Tarantino did take home in the end was the Palm Dog!
    Quentin Tarantino accepts the Palm Dog. Photograph: STAFF/Reuters    
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.24pm BST
block-time published-time 7.52pm BST 
Iñárritu says that this year's films had an "urgency of social consciousness" but says that the jury's selection wasn't based on "social or political agendas"
"No other consideration other than the film itself should be considered for the award. The cinema has to speak by itself," he says.
block-time published-time 7.49pm BST 
The jury press conference has begun. Inarritu describes Parasite as a "surprising film, funny humorous and tender.
block-time published-time 7.47pm BST 
Here's our report on Bong's win:
 Related:  Bong Joon-ho's Parasite wins Palme d'Or at Cannes film festival
block-time published-time 7.33pm BST 
Bong Joon-ho is the second Asian winner in consecutive years after Kore-eda for Shoplifters. Parasite has been compared to Shoplifters - offering a sort of dark parallel to the down-on-the-luck family at the centre of Kore-eda's film:
enltrBong Joon-Ho's brilliant Parasite plays liked a cracked mirror version of Koreeda's Shoplifters, as an underclass family inveigles their way into a onepercenter household. Part social satire, part demented horror. It's up there with the best films I've seen at #Cannes2019
 - Jordan Farley (@JordanFarley) May 22, 2019
enltrTwo Asian films about families of eccentric con artists win the Palme in consecutive years. WHAT CAN IT MEAN? #CANNES2019
 - ??Donald Clarke?? (@DonaldClarke63) May 25, 2019
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.56pm BST
block-time published-time 7.32pm BST 
 Reaction to Bong's win  
Consensus seems to be that Bong was a deserving winner:
enltrPow! What a wildly popular choice this is going to be https://t.co/hlGehlWx7
 - Peter Bradshaw (@PeterBradshaw1) May 25, 2019
enltrBong Joon-ho's Parasite wins the #Cannes2019 Palme d'Or which is EXACTLY as it should be; pound-for-pound the finest film in a strong competition lineup. The darkest, the funniest, the angriest, the best. I'm absolutely made up by this.
- Xan Brooks (@XanBrooks) May 25, 2019
enltrLike this selection very much indeed. Portrait/Fire seems undervalued, but at least it got something. Maybe give Sciamma director and Tarantino screenplay and it would have been perfect. #Cannes2019
 - Robbie Collin (@robbiereviews) May 25, 2019
enltrTHE PALME WENT TO THE ONE I WANTED! THIS NEVER HAPPENS! GO BONG!
- Catherine Bray (@catherinebray) May 25, 2019
block-time published-time 7.23pm BST 
Huge excitement from the Korean contingent of the press room. And rightly so. He's the first ever South Korean winner of the Palme by my reckoning.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.26pm BST
block-time published-time 7.21pm BST 
Blimey! What a win for Bong, one of the most exciting film-makers in the world right now. Parasite is a thoroughly worthy winner, an absolute edge-of-your-seat thriller that also manages to provide a canny critique of class divides.
block-time published-time 7.18pm BST 
 Bong Joon-ho wins the 2019 Palme d'Or for Parasite  
Right then, here we go: the big one. Presenting this year is Catherine Deneuve. 
And the winner is... Bong Joon-Ho for Parasite!!!!!!
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.21pm BST
block-time published-time 7.14pm BST 
But also a total cop out! Come on jury, stick your necks out
block-time published-time 7.13pm BST 
My esteemed colleague Andrew Pulver suggests that it may be a joint prize for Tarantino and Bong. That would make sense given both are here.
block-time published-time 7.12pm BST 
What a terrific win for Mati Diop, the first black female director to appear in competition at Cannes. Here's Peter's review of Atlantique:
https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/may/16/atlantique-review-cannes-mati-diop-senegal-mystery
block-time published-time 7.09pm BST 
 Grand Prix  
Atlantique wins!!!!!!
block-time published-time 7.09pm BST 
Stallone presenting the Grand Prix. He did a very entertaining Q&A at Cannes. You can read the highlights here:
 Related:  Sylvester Stallone: next Rocky film should focus on immigration
block-time published-time 7.07pm BST 
So then - Bong v Tarantino for the big one (unless Diop beats both of them to the prize!)
block-time published-time 7.06pm BST 
A triumphant yelp from the Spanish journos in the press room. Banderas really is rather lovely in Pain and Glory, playing a director (or Almodóvar surrogate) who deals with physical and emotional pain by looking back to his youth. 
block-time published-time 7.04pm BST 
 Best actor  
And the winner is... Antonio Banderas!
block-time published-time 6.59pm BST 
So, in time-honoured Cannes tradition, the jury have chickened out and given an award to multiple winners. Les Misérables is a French social-realist drama from first-time director Ladj Ly, while Bacurau is a truly wild sci-fi-slash-horror-slash-western from joint directors Kleber Mendonça Filho and Juliano Dornelles. So not two but three directors sharing this one.
block-time published-time 6.56pm BST 
 Jury Prize  
Michael Moore hosting this one. He dabbles in a little French, before taking aim at - yep - Donald Trump. He's calling for film-makers to rise up and create "art in dark times", while also nodding to Pablo Picasso.
And the winner is... Les Misérables and Bacurau, jointly! 
block-time published-time 6.53pm BST 
So, Parasite for the Palme? Or Tarantino? That would be a story, coming 25 years on from his Pulp Fiction win.
block-time published-time 6.51pm BST 
The Cannes jury are going their own way this year. Very eclectic range of winners. Here's Peter's Young Ahmed review:
 Related:  Young Ahmed review - subtle and timely tale of radicalisation
block-time published-time 6.50pm BST 
 Best Director  
Goes to the Dardennes for Young Ahmed. Another film that didn't exactly go down well with critics.
block-time published-time 6.47pm BST 
     Emily Beecham with her best actress award for Little Joe. Photograph: Eric Gaillard/Reuters   
Beecham plays a scientist who develops a happiness-inducing flower in Jessica Hausner's sci-fi, a film that critics have been a little frosty towards. Here's Peter's review if you missed it first time around:
 Related:  Little Joe review - Ben Whishaw left in the shade by wilting triffid horror
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.53pm BST
block-time published-time 6.46pm BST 
 Best actress  
... is another surprise! British actor Emily Beecham for Little Joe.
block-time published-time 6.45pm BST 
Wow, the press room, where I'm sat, was not expecting that. Sudden audible gasp.
block-time published-time 6.44pm BST 
 Best Screenplay  
First prize and it's a surprise! Celine Sciamma wins for Portrait of a Lady on Fire. That's her out of the Palme, you'd think.
block-time published-time 6.42pm BST 
Not quite a prize, but Elia Suleiman gets a special mention for his film It Must Be Heaven.
block-time published-time 6.40pm BST 
Here come this year's festival jury, headed up by The Revenant and Birdman director Alejandro González Iñárritu.
It's a director-heavy jury this year, with Robin Campillo (120 BPM), Yorgos Lanthimos (The Favourite), Pawel Pawlikowski (Cold War), Alice Rohrwacher (Happy as Lazzaro), Kelly Reichardt (Certain Women) and author and film-maker Enki Bilal.
The non-directors this year are Senegalese actor Maimouna N'Diaye and Elle Fanning.
block-time published-time 6.34pm BST 
 Camera d'Or  
Next up is the Camera d'Or, which is awarded to the best first feature at the festival. Strong competition here. And the winner is: Guatemalan director César Diaz for his film Nuestras Madres (Our Mothers), which deals with the aftermath of the Guatemalan civil war.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.37pm BST
block-time published-time 6.31pm BST 
We begin with the short film Palme, awarded by High Life director Claire Denis.
And the winner is...The Distance Between Us and the Sky by Greek director Vasilis Kekatos.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.35pm BST
block-time published-time 6.20pm BST 
Right, the ceremony is about to get underway. One of the best things about Cannes' awards bash is that it goes by in a flash. No three-hour Oscar torture here - we should hopefully know the winner within the hour.
block-time published-time 6.17pm BST 
It's not all about prizes, you know. Here's my report on Cannes' new initiative to make the festival more accessible to working mums:
 Related:  The reels on the bus: inside Cannes's first creche
block-time published-time 6.13pm BST 
And here's what we all learned from this year's festival (featuring an inevitable appearance by Game of Thrones):
 Related:  Tarantino is back! 10 things we learned from Cannes 2019
block-time published-time 6.08pm BST 
Above the muck and bullets, taking a panoramic view of the festival has been the Observer's Xan Brooks. Here's his round-up of week two, when Sciamma, Tarantino and Bong all wowed:
 Related:  Cannes 2019 week two roundup: insurrection in the air
block-time published-time 6.04pm BST 
The darkest timeline:
enltrBecause we're in the era of Trump, Brexit and GREEN BOOK, with the new rule that the egregiously wrong choice should be made at every available opportunity, I am hereby changing my Palme d'Or prediction to MEKTOUB, MY LOVE: INTERMEZZO.
- Guy Lodge (@GuyLodge) May 24, 2019
Thankfully there's no sign of Kechiche at the ceremony.
block-time published-time 6.02pm BST 
One last pre-ceremony award - and it's a biggie. The Pun d'Or goes to the LA Times's Justin Chang for a Mektoub-related zinger:
enltrThe only award being given today that anyone gives a shit about... the Pun d'Or! Ex-aequo: previous winner @robbiereviews & perpetual bridesmaid, finally bride            @JustinCChang for simultaneously arriving at "Gluteus Maximalism" to describe the Loach. (jk it was for the arse movie).            pic.twitter.com/a7n577HJyg
 - Jessica Kiang (@jessicakiang) May 25, 2019
block-time published-time 6.01pm BST 
Some Cannes goss from someone usually in the know:
enltrExoect 3 female directors whose films will receive a prize tonight from what I hear. #Cannes2019
 - Cédric Succivalli (@OnTheLido) May 25, 2019
Mati Diop has also been spotted on the red carpet. So her, Sciamma and Hausner all claiming something? 
block-time published-time 5.58pm BST 
Not here, by the looks of things is Pedro Almodovar! No Palme for Pedro for Pain and Glory then? Antonio Banderas, who stars in the film, is here, suggesting that he's got best actor locked up. Which would be a just result, I think - some have suggested it's his finest ever performance.
block-time published-time 5.55pm BST 
On the other hand.... Bong is in attendance at tonight's awards ceremony, which is usually a pretty strong evidence for a prize.
Others directors here include Tarantino, Little Joe director Hausner, Sciamma and - curveball - the Dardennes, who I just completely wrote off for a prize about 30 seconds ago. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.06pm BST
block-time published-time 5.51pm BST 
The winner of this year's Screen jury grid, which collates reviews from major critics around the globe, goes to Bong Joon-ho's Parasite. That's not the best bellweather, mind. Last year they chose another Korean film, Lee Chang-dong's magnificent Burning, which didn't claim a single prize in the awards proper.
enltrThrilled to have served on the @Screendaily jury grid at            #Cannes2019, and to see Bong Joon-ho's magnificent PARASITE, a strong contender for the Palme d'Or, finish on top with an average of 3.5/4. Naturally, MEKTOUB, MY LOVE: INTERMEZZO is on... the bottom.            pic.twitter.com/WQHo5EFI9M
 - Justin Chang (@JustinCChang) May 25, 2019
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.54pm BST
block-time published-time 5.48pm BST 
Peter Bradshaw has shared his favourite films from this year's festival, plus his predictions for tonight's prizes. He reckons Portrait of a Lady on Fire is going to win the top gong. 
 Related:  Cannes 2019: Peter Bradshaw's picks - and Palme d'Or predictions
block-time published-time 5.44pm BST 
 The rest  
On the past two occasions that I've been behind the wheel of this 'ere liveblog, I've failed to give the eventual winner even a passing mention (sorry The Square and Shoplifters). To insure myself against a similar embarrassment happening this time around, here's a quick run-down of the remaining 15 films in selection: 
 Bacarau ( dir: Kleber Mendonça Filho & Juliano Dornelles ) Brazilian horror-western taking aim at Bolsonaro. In with a shout of a prize, perhaps even the Palme. Review
 T he Dead Don't Die ( dir: Jim Jarmusch ) The fest's opening night film, Jarmusch's zom-com has largely been forgotten by now. Review
 Frankie ( dir: Ira Sachs ) A Huppert-starring comedy of manners that feels a tad too slight for consideration. Review
 La Gomera  ( dir: Corneliu Porumboiu ) Fun Romanian thriller where crims communicate through whistles. Screenplay prize perhaps. Review
 A Hidden Life ( dir: Terrence Malick ) Minor return to form for Malick. Maybe not enough for the Palme, but best director a possibility. Review
    Terence Malick's A Hidden Life. Photograph: Reiner Bajo   
 It Must Be Heaven ( dir: Elia Suleiman ) The Palestinian director's self-referential satire isn't without its fans, though perhaps doesn't hit previous peaks. Review
 Les Misérables ( dir: Ladj Ly ) Drama about social unrest in a Paris suburb from first-time director Ly. Timely, which may help in the awards stakes. Review
 Little Joe  ( dir: Jessica Hausner ) Critics were unmoved by Hausner's chilly sci-fi parable. Might the jury be more supportive? Review
 Matthias and Maxime ( dir: Xavier Dolan ) One of the better recent efforts from former wunderkind Dolan, though struggles to stand out in a strong year. Review
 Oh Mercy! ( dir: Arnaud Desplechin ) A rather muted response for the Cannes veteran's cop thriller doesn't bode well. Review
 Sibyl ( dir: Justine Triet ) Fun psychodrama about a flawed therapist. Not the sort of film that often gets rewarded here, but Virginie Efira a dark horse for the actress prize Review
    Sorry We Missed You, directed by Ken Loach. Photograph: PR   
 Sorry We Missed You (dir: Ken Loach) Loach can become the triple Palme winner if he triumphs here, but this stirring social drama's similarities to I, Daniel Blake may count against it. Review
 The Traitor (dir: Marco Bellocchio) Distinctly trad mob drama from the Italian veteran. Nicely put-together, but perhaps lacks the shock of the new. Review
 The Wild Goose Lake ( dir: Diao Yinan ) Chinese mob drama where someone gets run through with an umbrella. Too pulpy for the Palme? Review
 The Young Ahmed (dir: Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne) Like Loach, the Dardennes can become three-time winners, but their extremist drama was slightly limply received. Review
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.50pm BST
block-time published-time 5.42pm BST 
 You're all winners!  
We know about the Palme d'Or, of course, but there are a number of other awards up for grabs, in the main ceremony, including the Grand Prix prize (which essentially acts as a silver medal) and the Jury prize (which is the equivalent of bronze), plus best actor, actress, screenplay and director prizes. 
Note: if a film picks up one of those prizes, it's highly unlikely to win the Palme, due to Cannes' unwritten policy of not giving multiple awards to the same film (though sometimes multiple smaller prizes are handed out, as was the case with Lynne Ramsay winning best director and Joaquin Phoenix claiming best actor for You Were Never Really Here in 2017).
Meanwhile, a load of other prizes have already been dished out. The winner of the Un Certain Regard sidebar was claimed by Brazilian 50s-set drama Invisible Life of Eurídice Gusmão, while The Queer Palm for best LGBT film went, as expected, to Portrait of a Lady on Fire. 
    Quentin Tarantino claiming the Palm Dog prize on behalf of Brandy the pitbull. Photograph: Natalie Handel/AFP/Getty Images   
Elsewhere, the International Federation of Film Critics (Fipresci) prize for best first or second feature has gone to Robert Eggers' The Lighthouse, an absolute firecracker of a film starring Robert Pattinson and Willem Dafoe as warring lighthouse-keepers, which Peter Bradshaw likened to "Steptoe and Son in hell" in his five-star review.
Last but certainly not least, the winner of the Palm Dog went to Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood's pitbull Brandy. Quentin Tarantino claimed the prize - a dog collar - for himself at the awards ceremony, a move that went down badly with the assembled audience! Oh, Quentin - let's hope that's not the only prize you go home with.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.46pm BST
block-time published-time 5.39pm BST 
One film that surely won't win anything tonight is Abdellatif Kechiche's Mektoub My Love: Intermezzo. A sequel to the Blue is the Warmest Colour director's hedonist opus Mektoub My Love: Canto Uno, Intermezzo has received a critical savaging for essentially being a three-and-a-half-hour-long leer at young women's backsides. It's currently got a            zero percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes - ouch!
Peter Bradshaw was kinder than many critics in his write up, but didn't exactly love it. Read his review here.
block-time published-time 5.33pm BST 
 The contenders  
So then, who's claiming the big ice cube with the decorative twig glued to its front? As has been the case in recent years, it looks an open race for the Palme with plenty of worthy candidates. Here though are five that we reckon are frontrunners:
    A Palme for Pedro? Pain and Glory. Photograph: PR   
 Pain and Glory ( Dir Pedro Almodóvar ) Despite appearing in competition five times previously, the Spanish director has never taken home the Palme, so a sense of him being overdue might influence the jury's decision here. The work itself, a deeply felt rumination on life, ageing and film-making that shares similarities with Fellini's 8 1/2, is likely to push their buttons too. Read Peter Bradshaw's review
 Portrait of a Lady on Fire ( Dir Céline Sciamma ) Again, the weight of history might play a part here: only one female director, Jane Campion, has ever won Cannes' top prize - and even then she had to share it with Farewell My Concubine director Chen Kaige. Moreover, Sciamma's 18th-century-set romance is arguably the strongest film in the entire competition. Expect an outcry if it doesn't win something major here. Read Peter Bradshaw's review
    Very much in the running... Parasite. Photograph: 2019 CJ ENM Corporation, Barunson E&A   
 Parasite ( Dir Bong Joon-ho ) Like Portrait..., this dizzying South Korean drama from the director of Snowpiercer and Okja has been received rapturously by audiences. And with good reason - it's a terrifically tense thriller with much to say about inequality and capitalism's clammy hold over society. I do slightly wonder whether the film's genre elements might hold it back, but it definitely is in the running. Read Peter Bradshaw's review
 Atlantique ( Dir Mati Diop ) The first black female director to ever appear in competition at Cannes, Diop has generated much buzz with her thoughtful, inventive drama about Senegalese migrants. It features a supernatural tinge that hasn't gone down well with everyone, but if the jury was looking to make a statement with their Palme pick, this might just be the best bet. Read Peter Bradshaw's review
    Leonardo DiCaprio in Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood. Photograph: Andrew Cooper/Allstar/COLUMBIA PICTURES CORPORATION   
 Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood ( Dir Quentin Tarantino ) Tarantino's return to Cannes went more swimmingly than many expected, given that his latest tackles the tricky subject of the Manson murders. In the event, this ode to the last knockings of the old studio system might just be Tarantino's best work since the first Kill Bill, even if the film's third act left some cold. Might longstanding affection for QT push him over the top here? Read Peter Bradshaw's review
block-time published-time 4.34pm BST 
 Bonsoir!  
... and welcome to the Guardian's Cannes film festival awards liveblog. After a fortnight spent worshipping at the altar of 'le cinema' we're finally ready to find out which of 21 films will be awarded prestige film-making's most important prize, the Palme d'Or. It looks set to be an interesting race this year, with some big-hitting auteurs, including Quentin Tarantino and Pedro Almodóvar, facing off against cinema's coming forces, like Bong Joon-ho and Céline Sciamma.
We'll have the results as they happen, as well as those for the other awards being handed out this evening. The ceremony begins at 7.15pm local time (6.15pm in the UK), so stick with us for news, a little bit of insight, and - most crucially of all - the recipient of this year's 'Palm Dog'. 
 Load-Date: May 25, 2019

 

