


Golden film Parasite - film reviews, Oscars 2020 wins, plot and UK release date
thesun.co.uk
February 10, 2020 Monday 10:44 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM,TV & SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 597 words
Byline: Shanique Joseph
Body




                     PARASITE was one of the big winners during the Oscars 2020 ceremony.                   
The South Korean film collected four gongs on the night, including Best Picture.
Parasite made history when it was named Best Picture, becoming the first non-English language movie to receive the accolade. 
The black comedy beat British war movie 1917 and took home another three awards that evening.
                                            How many awards did Parasite win at the Oscars 2020?                                        
Parasite was nominated for six Academy Awards, including the coveted Best Picture category.
The film was also put forward for Directing, International Feature Film, Writing (Original screenplay), Film Editing and Production Design.
On awards night, Parasite collected trophies for Directing, Best Picture, International Feature Film and Writing (Original Screenplay).
The incredible wins meant the South Korean comedy took home more than half of the awards it was nominated for.
Collecting the Best Picture gong, Parasite producer Kwak Sin Ae said: "I'm speechless. We never imagined this to ever happen. 
"We are so happy. I feel like a very opportune moment in history is happening right now.
"I express my deepest gratitude and respect for all the members of the Academy for making this decision."
Praising the director, Lee Jeong Un added: "I'd really like to thank director Bong. 
"Thank you for being you and I like everything about him: his smile, his crazy hair, the way he talks, the way he walks, and especially the way he directs."
                                            What are the reviews like for Parasite?                                        
The movie has an abundance of exceptionally good reviews, including one from The Guardian in which critic Mark Kermode gave it five out of five stars.
Of Parasite, Kermode said: "It's a tragicomic masterclass that will get under your skin and eat away at your cinematic soul."
Also giving the film a perfect score, Independent critic Clarisse Loughrey wrote: "The director's work is as playful as it is sincere and revelatory. 
"He'll make you feel at home, and then rip the rug out from under you."
The Sun's Jamie East said of the film: "It is completely gripping. Director Bong Joon-ho displays incredible dexterity here."
Showering the director with praise, Empire's John Nugent enthused: "A miracle of a film. It feels like Bong Joon-ho's already extraordinary career has been building to this: a riotous social satire that's as gloriously entertaining as it is deeply sardonic."
                                            What is Parasite about?                                        
Dubbed a psychological thriller, with dark comedy, Parasite is centred around the Kim family, who are unemployed and living in a grubby basement.
Focusing on the families' interactions with a much more wealthier brood, the Parks; one of the Kim children is eventually employed by the family, as a tutor.
Seeing this, the rest of the Kim family begins to follow him in entering the Parks' home but it has unexpected consequences.
The movie touches on class differences and has a few twists and turn, which will leave viewers second-guessing themselves.
                                            When is the UK release date for Parasite?                                        
The film hit UK theatres on Friday, February 7, 2020 - just two days before it won big at the 92nd Academy Awards.
Parasite can be found in most cinemas including the big three - Oden, Cineworld and Picurehouse - among others.
 Load-Date: February 11, 2020

 

