


Bong Joon-ho walks away with Palme d'Or for Parasite at Cannes
Stillman Advance: Stillman College
May 28, 2019 Tuesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: CULTURE; Pg. 1
Length: 454 words
Byline: Julia Gonzales
Body




The Cannes jury were "bitten" by South Korean film Parasite, awarding it the topPalme d'Or prize on Saturday.
While accepting the award, Bong Joon Ho remarked, "The film "Parasite" was a surprising risk".
It is a handsomely made film, which runs as smoothly as a luxury auto.
"The film was made possible because of the great actors involved", said Bong.
For many critics, the choice for the top prize among the 21 contenders was especially hard at the world's most influential worldwide film festival.
The film by Diop, the first black female director ever in competition in Cannes, views the migrant crisis from the perspective of Senegalese women left behind after many young men flee by sea to Spain.
The movie, based on her 2009 short documentary, was Diop's first feature-length film.
Best actor went to Antonio Banderas for Pedro Almodovar's reflective drama "Pain and Glory". The decision to award Bong thePalme d'Or was a "unanimous" one for the nine-person jury, said jury president Alejandro Inarritu in the festival's closing ceremony. Celine Sciamma's period romance "Portrait of a Lady on Fire" was the Palme pick for many critics this year.
Sasha Obama sends the internet wild with prom photos
Flip through the gallery to see more of Malia and Sasha Obama's style moments throughout the years. Both Michelle and Malia were all smiles for the youngster's pre-prom festivities.
"It is a shared prize".
Britain's Emily Beecham was crowned best actress after starring in Jessica Hausner's Little Joe as a botanist who starts having doubts about her latest genetically-modified creation when it begins to affect her loved ones.
The jury prize, or third place, was split between two socially conscious thrillers: The French director Ladj Ly's feature-film debut Les Misérables and Brazilian director Kleber Mendonça Filho's Bacurau.Netflix has since withdrawn from the festival on the French Riveira.
"[Making] the filmParasite was an awesome adventure", Bong said after receiving the covetedPalme d'Or at the 72nd Festival de Cannes in France.
Congratulations to the film's cast and crew!
Filmmakers there have warned about tough times ahead for the Brazilian movie industry, after far-right President Jair Bolsonaro said he would battle "cultural Marxism" and reduced the remit of Brazil's culture ministry.
"It's been quite a strong year in all the competitions at Cannes", said Meredith Taylor, editor of arthouse film site Filmuforia, adding that she had handed out more four-star reviews than usual. "Now we don't really know what's going to happen", Mendonca said.
Among other prizes, Belgian filmmaking duo Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne jointly won the best director prize for their movie about a radicalized teen, Young Ahmed.
 Load-Date: May 29, 2019

 

