


The Host
South China Morning Post
September 7, 2006 Thursday

 Copyright 2006 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Review; Pg. 1
Length: 386 words
Byline: Clarence Tsui
Body




 Starring: Song Kang-ho, Byun Hee-bong, Park Hae-il, Bae Doo-na
 Director: Bong Joon-ho
 Category: IIA (Korean)
 The  opening of The Host  speaks volumes.  The thriller begins  in a gloomy  laboratory - possibly  intended to be one of South Korea's many  US military establishments - with an American commander  ordering an aide to "just dump" formaldehyde into the sewers. The startled Korean  warns that these  lead directly to the Han River that runs through Seoul. "The Han River is broad, so let's be broad-minded", says the American. "That's an order, anyway."
 It's an  exchange that is  drenched with symbolism.  It  backgrounds the origins of the monster that  will become central to the  film, and lays bare director Bong Joon-ho's intention of making a political film.   The monster may terrorise Seoul, but the root of the trouble lies with the presence in the country of  US military personnel,  who are beyond the local jurisdiction.
 Not that The Host is merely anti-US propaganda dressed up in the flimsy shell of a thriller.  The mayhem - blood, gore and skeletal remains - are  an assault  on the senses. And there are moments of hilarity, with some of South Korea's best comedians among the cast  (Song Kang-ho delivers a deadpan performance as the feeble father Gang-du that's as funny as  his turn in Foul King).
 What makes The Host remarkable is how Bong allows the political allegories to run as much amok as the monster.  It's no wonder The Host has become the biggest Korean movie ever.  While entertaining as a thriller and a comedy, it also presents  a distillation of the country's turbulent recent history into its two-hour storyline.
 With the monster a thinly veiled symbol of the US,  the blundering  government officials and helpless citizens reflect a sense of  eclipsed manhood  and nationhood. The way Gang-du's teenage daughter Hyun-seo (Ko A-sung)  is snatched by the monster  suggests  the nature of relations between  American soldiers and local women.   And street demonstrations  evoke the  anti-establishment struggles  within South Korea since the 1970s.
 The multiple layers Bong constructs  gel well. The Host is a solid achievement that works on both sensational and cerebral levels - and serves as one of the pinnacles of South Korean filmmaking.
 The Host opens on September 14
 Graphic



 
There's much more to Bong Joon-ho's The Host than a rampaging monster and terrified citizenry ... it's drenched with symbolism, and the anti-US message is none too subtle
 Load-Date: September 11, 2006

 

