


Movie Review: Five-time Oscar-winning movie Parasite
The Etownian: Elizabethtown College
February 27, 2020 Thursday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: CAMPUS-LIFE; Pg. 1
Length: 498 words
Byline: Leo Costello
Body




Photo courtesy of unsplash.com
The Oscars recently made history when "Parasite" (2019) became the first non-English and the first South Korean film to win Best Picture. It is also the first movie to win both Best Picture and best international feature.
With the recent "Oscars So White" campaign, this is a huge deal in the movie industry. This motion picture has brought attention to foreign films, especially non-English ones. All of this is incredibly deserved because the film was absolutely wonderful. "Parasite," (2019) directed by Bong Joon-Ho, is a Korean language picture that comments on social classes.
It does so through two different families: the rich, upper-class Park family and the poor, lower-class Kim family.
The film is full of surprises, and despite what many might assume, it is not a horror movie. It is a dramatic thriller with only one moment that really stands out as spooky.
However, there is a lot of violence and blood, so viewer discretion is advised.
Bong Joon-Ho's use of color and space in this film is reminiscent of other East Asian films. While the scenes are very colorful, they are not colors that would usually be very pleasing to the eye. However, the shots are stunning.
One might compare the set-up of various shots to those of Alfred Hitchcock, who used space in unique ways. While the color is obviously different from Hitchcock's black and white films, the repetition of stairways and views from windows might make one compare this movie to those of Hitchcock.
The script for this film is also quite interesting. There is never a dull moment, and the dialogue certainly added to this. The Kim family is full of people desperate for money, and they have a dry sense of humor about them. This often helps to ease the tension of the plot, which isn't always an easy task.
The tension is done very well, leaving the audience on the edge of their seat for half, if not most, of the film. Some scenes in particular are incredibly tense and will leave the viewer questioning who exactly they are rooting for. There are moments when one character's life is on the line, but not because of who the audience might have originally thought.
Not only is this film about social class, but it is also about morals. It makes an interesting commentary on both subjects, leaving the viewer thinking about this movie for days after seeing it. While the audience starts out rooting for one character, that opinion may switch halfway through.
This is something Bong Joon-Ho did incredibly well; he made the characters relatably human. All of them are sympethetically flawed people with questionable morals. "Parasite" (2019) is a stunningly crafted film worthy of every Oscar it won. It will leave the audience questioning their way of thinking for days to come, and hopefully, open a few minds at the same time.
With President Trump saying he didn't understand this movie, it makes me quite pleased to say just how much I love it. Final score: 10/10.
Leo Costello
AUTHOR
PROFILE
 Load-Date: February 27, 2020

 

