


Movie review: The Host ****: Korean monster movie is horribly charming
The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)
April 27, 2007 Friday

 Copyright 2007 The Blade
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
Length: 1109 words
Byline: Christopher Borrelli, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Body




Apr. 27--Science gone wrong!
A military mobilized!
An (Asian) nation terrified!
A creature who would not die!
With 1,000 teeth! 10,000 eyes!
From the ocean floor!
Sigh.
As a moviegoer who grew up on Boston's Creature Double Feature (back-to-back marauding-giant-monster movies, every Saturday afternoon on a scratchy UHF channel), as a rational adult who pays taxes and buys milk, as a journalist who goes to movies for a living, I must say, it is one of the disappointments of my professional life that big green slimy beasts, with legs as thick as redwoods and claws that tear up pavement, climbing from a toxic river to lay waste to a feckless mankind, are far too rare.
I see 17 talking animal cartoons a year. I watch 34 odd serial killer pictures, and catch a baker's dozen of war movies and my share of films about horny teenagers. I sit though 73 films every 12 months with Judi Dench and/or Jude Law -- but the descendants of Godzilla have remained, oddly, trapped in the primordial ooze from whence they came.
Laugh, snicker -- put The Queen at the top of your Netflix queue for all I care!
A puckish new South Korean export, The Host, which opens in Toledo today, makes a convincing, and playfully deranged, argument that the giant-monster genre is far more malleable than we imagined.
Yes, it's a monster movie, first and foremost, sure. But oh, it argues, your typical Asian monster mash can be a dysfunctional family drama, or a political satire, a cautionary environmental warning, or a straight-out comedy, a governmental farce about ineffectual bureaucrats, or a metaphor for the American military presence in South Korea, or a reminder of the ingenuity of children -- and so on.
Director Bong Joon-ho, who indeed grew up not far from a U.S. military base, picks all of the above. As messy as the overall shebang may be -- here is a picture in a constant pitched battle over what mood or point it wants to convey -- it's not overstating to say it handles every last one of those far-flung goals, individually, with equal wit and grace. In fact, that shaggy, loose-limbed quality is what makes it more than a monster movie. It's got charm to spare. Since its premiere last year in South Korea, The Host has become the biggest smash in that country's history, a literal Bong hit; and when I saw it last October at the New York Film Festival (I've since seen it two more times), the crush of highbrow cinema snobs pushing to get into a midnight screening threatened to become a black-rectangular-eyeglass-frame battle royale.
Still not convinced?
Two images stick.
The first is the initial, lyrical sighting of the monster -which is something else, let me tell you. We are witness to a Day Everything Changed, though it starts out a Day Like Any Other. Families picnic and dogs bark and the sun shines along the Han River, a wide strip of water that cuts through downtown Seoul. A line forms at the family-run snack van, until someone shouts, "Hey, what's that?" And someone else shouts, "It's moving," and now everyone in the park is standing and pointing and gasping, and the tension ratchets up with each passing second: Hanging from the steel beams of a huge bridge that spans the Han, maybe a hundred yards away, is a long dollop of ... something ugly, a large fluttering tonsil of sorts.
It unfurls its body, back-flips cleanly from girder to girder, and jackknifes into the water with barely a splash. The crowds ahhs. A few snap photos with their cell phones. The creature glides just under the water's surface, along the bank. Nobody breathes. Then someone hits it with a beer can. Great. It leaps from the Han. It's full-grown and irate. It resembles a large tadpole with legs, like the result of sex between a rhinoceros and a school bus.
The other image comes in the end -- actually, it's the last shot (but it gives nothing away). The family who runs that snack van is sharing a meal. They've been through a lot. Summer's gone and winter's arrived. The camera pulls back until their tiny home is now a tiny island, the warm yellow glow of the light in the window, a swirl of snow gusting across the ground, and nobody else in sight.
Godzilla never had ennui.
But then The Host is the last thing you expect: a monster movie with a soul, a creature feature that uses the creature to get at something unexpected -- a snapshot of generations struggling to pull together. It starts with a familiar B-movie set-up, though, one with pointed political purpose: An American scientist orders his Korean assistant to pour 200 gallons of formaldehyde down the drain. The underling protests. But the scientist cuts him off: "I am not used to repeating myself!" Ah, the folly of man!
Will they never stop meddling with nature!?!
Cut to six years later, and we meet the Park family. Grandpa is a timid provider, weak in the knees, quick to bow to anyone in a uniform. His children are adult failures: There's the college graduate who can't get a job and dreams of his Molotov cocktail pro-democracy riot days (he may get a chance to re-live those); there's the professional archer (always handy in a monster movie) who always chokes, and there's the oldest, with a bad dye job, forever falling asleep when you need him. No one gets along. The one family member who isn't a mess is the grandchild, Hyun-seo (play by an exquisite young actress named Ah Sung Ko). But when monster meets matriarch, to the grief of the family, Hyun-seo is captured. The Parks mount a rescue attempt. Or rather, they try.
From here, like many a South Korean film, The Host spreads out in as many directions as that monster's jaw -- which unfolds like a malevolent flower. But the emotions are real and the focus is squarely on the characters. The film sags in its midsection, but that's out of ambition and willingness to chase an idea. The government overreacts and falls back into old authoritarian habits. Unlike old monster movies, in the new ones, like this one, the authorities are not your first choice when disaster strikes. The Parks wind up facing a bureaucracy as brutal as the beast. The military scapegoats. The visiting authorities (that's us, the U.S.) stonewall. If Godzilla was born of a nuclear blast, here is a monster born of new anxieties, and of course, we get the scary creature we deserve.
Contact Christopher Borrelli at: cborrelli@theblade.com or 419-724-6117.
Copyright (c) 2007, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.
 Load-Date: April 27, 2007

 

