


"Parasite", the masterful and unpredictable Korean film that conquers the world (and the awards)
CE Noticias Financieras English
January 13, 2020 Monday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 1669 words
Body




Parasite has become the big Asian movie star of recent months. Winner of the Palme d'Or in the latest edition of the Cannes Film Festival, and the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film (and that's just for the better two awards in a long list of awards), included in a list of best films released in the year 2019 for the places he passed and almost certainly nominated for the 2020 Oscar for best foreign film. As if this were not enough, Parasite has managed to reap, in addition to prestige, a lot of popularity both within and outside its country of origin. Something that is due, above all, to its narrative merits and its unpredictable handling of suspense.
For those who never saw anything from its director Bong Joon Ho, a film like Parasite will probably prove completely surprising. Those who, on the other hand, know this filmmaker, will appreciate in Parasite tones and themes very typical of one of the most important directors of contemporary cinema. To locate this director throughout his career, he has so far been making seven feature film and belongs to a generation of new filmmakers from South Korea that have emerged since the mid-1990s.
There are, to say some notable names (whether for the quality of their films, whether because of the enormous popularity of some of their feature films): Lee Chang Dong, Park Chan Wook, Kim Ki Duk, Hong Sang so, or Yeong Sang Ho. Some of them knew how to make commercial films different from the usual ones, which knew how to reread American genres by moving them to the streets of their country. Bong was always an expert on this last art. In fact, his films are often rabidly funny and feature shocking scenes. A quality that caught the attention of American producers who summoned him twice (the remarkable Snowpiecer and the failed Okja, made for Netflix) to direct major action and adventure productions.
His particularly striking and lucid cinema also made his prestige in the worlds of festivals and in a movie-goers audience appeared immediately. In fact, after an interesting but failed first film like Barking Dog Never Bites (Flandersui Gae-2000), he made a policeman called Memoirs of a Killer (Salinui chueok-2003), perhaps his first masterpiece.
There Bong recounted the story of a cruel serial killer and rapist who had young girls as victims. What seems to start as a conventional police officer where you have to catch a murderer in a small town, ends up drifting in a completely different place. Gradually, subtly, what ends up happening is the story of two detectives desperately trying to find a criminal who is not only beyond his capabilities but also beyond a police bureaucracy with precarious technology and a preparation in some cases practically zero. Memoirs of a Killer was Bong's first surprising film that revolved around two things that this director is obsessed with.
Bong Joon Ho and the Palm of Gold of Cannes by "Parasite" (REUTERS/Stephane Mahe) (Stephane Mahe/)
On the one hand, a cinematic idea: Bong has been well aware throughout his filmography that there are certain types of genres that can no longer be narrated in the same way and that can only be recovered by transgressing completely. In this way, he remeans the policeman in the aforementioned Memoirs of a Murderer, but also in Mother, a feature film that Bong would make in 2009 about a mother desperately trying to find a murdererbefore your child is convicted of a crime he did not commit. Meanwhile, in The Host (a 2003 film and perhaps his greatest masterpiece to date), he remeans monster cinema confronting a powerful and huge aquatic bug with a South Korean fringe family who must challenge both the fantasy spawn and a device this Korean and a paranoid society. In Snowpiecer, Bong focuses on a dystopian universe of action and science fiction in which he uses a furious political commentary on class division and the construction of systematic lies for population subjugation.
In all these cases there is a strong imprint of political and social cinema, an interest that in the case of Bong Joo Ho connects even with his own academic title (before dedicating himself to film graduated as a sociologist). Within these social interests, what persists most is a personal look at power relations. Not only because in his cinema there are tensions of class or authority (which most of the time is the same thing), but because more than once that power manifests itself awkwardly and even unconsciously. A clear example of this is in The Host. What stands out is that military forces can not only be cruel, but can lack all common sense and surrender to obedience of a greater power (in this case that of the United States) without squeaking. In Memoirs of a Killer, for example, small-town policemen use confessions via torture not only because of a context of widespread violence (the film takes place during a right-wing dictatorship that Suffered South Korea in the 1980s), but because of the they lack too much intelligence, and even in Okja the main villains present theself as a set of grotesque people who end up being overtaken in cunning by a teenage girl.
Of course, so much emphasis on the improbability or ignorance of certain characters results in more than one occasion when Bong's cinema uses, and much, satire and humor. But it is also true that the stupidity or ignorance of some of his characters is not only comical but also harmful and tragic. And this is where we enter one of the most amazing features of its cinema: its unpredictability. Whoever enters Bong Joon Ho's world enters a universe where anything seems to happen. His cinema is rich in narrative twists, and abrupt record changes that make it quickly move from the comical to the terrible. However, the interesting thing about your cinema is that these record changes, while looking rough at first glance, end up revealing as logical when you review the film or even finish thinking about it. I mean, Bong's cinema may be unpredictable, but this unpredictability is never free. Deep down, it ends up being a hopeful consequence, sometimes even logical both by the environment in which their characters live and by their own decisions.
Parasite is a perfect example of the latter aspect. Its plot revolves around a marginal family group in South Korea that uses the scam to gradually inhabit the home of a wealthy family. Their strategy will be that, progressively, each family member is occupying a different position, both from the servitude and the particular teaching staff of his children. At some point, Parasite is thematically twinned with two particularly resonant American films from last year: Us, by Jordan Peele, and especially Joker, by Todd Phillips. All these feature films have in common a similar idea: to present ourselves with a society divided into two classesvery marked social saloons, of which the lowest are furious and eager to occupy more privileged places as they may be, and the highest completely ignorant of what is happening with the most unfortunate sectors.
However, there is one thing that makes Parasite very different from the other two: people who occupy privileged places are not shown at any time with contempt. Their petty attitudes, while they may exist, not necessarily make them horrible villains or even bad people, but simply people who were lucky enough to be born in peaceful places where they could build a much better future. In any case, what gave them that privileged life is a world surrounded by a bubble of happiness that made them very naive for certain things, who do not know who are the people who entered their house or fully know each corner of their  own housing.
Considering the way rich characters are described, and the criminal actions of the less privileged, Parasite can prove to be a deceptively misanthropic film. But the truth is that misanthropy is a feeling that comes from the idea of thinking an evil man in his nature. Bong, on the other hand, does not think that his characters are evil, but that they are the product of a certain circumstance. In fact, there is no vile attitude on Parasite that one cannot end up understanding by the very context that its characters suffer. To the point this is so that until killing can turn towards the end an understandable attitude derived from characters who have reached a point of madness that should not be revealed.
In any case, at Parasite everything seems to be a matter of environments. Hence also in the film the figure of the architectural is so important. The rich are enchanted by the beautiful design of their large house in which they can stay protected and safe from threats; while the poor suffer in fragile houses, located in the worst possible place, where even something as common as heavy rain can be a threat. In these fragile existences, as one of the lower-class characters will say at one point in the film, you can't plan, you can't think medium or long-term because everything is permanently linked to survival after all. At some point then, that enchantment that poor characters have over the beautiful mansions is not necessarily frivolous or superficial: it is rather a logical attitude in the search for a shell that allows them to go for their life with greater security. And at some point too, the abrupt record changes of this film are not only part of a style mark of its director, but also a reflection of unstable stocks, which can be altered overnight with as sharpness as the very tone of a film at the same time comedic, tragic and desperate time.
Parasite is a bitter and rabid lystered reflection of such lives; one that manages to talk about poverty without miserabilisms, or demagogic gestures, and about class divisions without a Matic conception. All in all, one of those happily different feature films, which cinema delivers very occasionally.
Read
Polanski and the crossroads between the accuser and the accused: allegations that do not cease and the boycott of his films
Ten Argentine movie movies to enjoy free via streaming
 Load-Date: February 26, 2020

 

