


HD DVD Review: <i>The Host</i>
Blogcritics.org Video
July 30, 2007 Monday 7:36 AM EST

 Copyright 2007 Newstex LLC
All Rights Reserved
Newstex Web Blogs
Copyright 2007 Blogcritics.org Video
Length: 1072 words
Byline: Matt Paprocki
Body




  Jul. 30, 2007 (Blogcritics.org delivered by Newstex) -- Setting box office records in its native homeland of Korea, The Host is a family drama with a twist. It's really a monster movie, or one stuck amidst the story of a family desperately seeking their youngest member. The somewhat sluggish pacing and numerous unexplained occurrences are cause for concern, but Host is a still a wild ride. 
Blatantly putting the blame on the US (and based on true events), formaldehyde is dumped into a Korean river, spawning a grotesque yet innovative-looking beast looking to munch on some film extras. Its first appearance is a monster classic, bravely shot in broad daylight amongst a city backdrop and loads of people. The special effects are on par with anything coming out of America, and it continually strives to prove this, including a secondary action sequence set in a massive downpour. 
While that may indicate non-stop action, this is a subdued effort from director Joon-ho Bong. The central characters are a small family composed of varied and well-thought out contrasts. Hae-il Park is the klutz, yet also the hero willing to risk it all to save anyone in need. The film stays on a strict path in terms of development, and stays with scenes to ensure the proper tone is intact. 
There is also a strong layer of comedy here, even though the story takes critical downhill swings into heavy drama. The lighter tone breaks up some of the tension, and it initially feels awkward. Laughing at a funeral is tough to do, while the script work and ridiculous (in a good way) performances sell the idea. 
With the amount of time spent on jokes and basic conversation between the family unit, you can't help but begin layering questions on top of questions about the story. A virus subplot is baffling and confusing without adequate explanation. The initial means of inadvertently creating the creature likewise should have spawned countless more. There is no science involved to explain the monster, and this comes with a cost. Some of its actions are then likewise lost on the viewer, such as why it eats some people and leaves others in its sewer lair alive. 
That said, The Host is a unique piece of creature feature filmmaking. It's not easy to stand out in a market of generic direct-to-cable knock-offs and box office duds such as the 1998 Godzilla remake. The attention to detail with its characters is what helps this effort rise above the typical clichés and predictable finale.            >
The film translates beautifully to the hi-def format. Color is beautiful, rich, and full. Contrast with the black levels creates an amazing image on screen. Finer details such as details in the clothing and backdrops are high. The only downer is some excessive film grain, and it's consistent throughout.            >
Numerous audio options are available, and none disappoint. The leader is the Korean DTS-HD mix, packed with consistent rear speaker usage that captures the creature.s movements as it makes its attacks. The downside is overwhelming bass. The footsteps of the monster are far too powerful, especially given its fleet-footed nature and rather small stature. Godzilla doesn't take steps that rattle a house like this.            >
This is a packed HD DVD experience, pulling over all of the two-disc features available on the standard DVD release. Making of the Host is a 10-minute feature that is mostly the director discussing his concepts and ideas for the film. Behind the scenes footage comes later in the special features. 
Memories of the Sewer is one of the more unique looks at filmmaking to find its way onto a home video format. It's rare to hear actors complain, but they do that here en masse. No sets were built, and film crews shot in an actual sewer line, unclean, biological waste and all. It's a shame it's only 10 minutes, as the stories are simply unheard of (such as the prop department gathering dead animals to use as 
Physical special effects is a brief five minute feature dealing with how to create gas for the finale and the plates for the eventual CG work. Designing the Creature runs 11 minutes. It focuses on why the monster looks like it does while throwing massive amounts of conceptual artwork at the viewer. 
Puppet Animatronix follows, and runs seven minutes. There's some great footage here of the unpainted puppet head being pulled off the truck after being delivered from the US effects company as it captures the initial reactions of the Korean crew. This is the precursor to Animating the Creature, a 10-minute rundown of the American CG crew's efforts, including extended examples of how they pull it off. 
Bringing the Creature to Life is the longest documentary piece, running 20 minutes. It's interesting to see how the American crew kept a line of communication with those in Korea via numerous technology applications. There is some redundant material here, especially when it comes to the animatics. Likewise, many of the storyboards in a separate portion of the disc will seem familiar. 
The Family is a short collection of interviews with the actors about their characters. Four minutes isn't enough time to make the piece worthwhile. Training the Actors offers some fun footage of the cast learning how to use bows and guns. 
A nearly eight minute gag reel is filled with animation goofs and visual gags, along with some finished shots that don't seem to fit. An additional eight minutes are spent on deleted scenes that would have only served to further slow down the drama. The original Korean trailer is included as is a solo commentary by director Joon-ho Bong. It's a shame the cast didn't take part in the latter, as stories from the set seem numerous if the other features are true.            >
A remake is due out in 2008, continuing a trend of remaking Asian films for an American market. While it's highly unlikely the shifts in tone will be handled as well, there's hopefully a chance we'll learn more about the creature itself. Cleaning up the plot holes is a crucial piece of the film.            Matt Paprocki is the reviews editor for            Digital Press, a classic video game website which he called home after his fanzine (Gaming Source) published its final issue. The            deep game collection which spans nearly 30 systems and 2,000 games line his walls for reasearch purposes. Really. He has also begun writing freelance for the            Toledo Free Press.>
 Notes



The views expressed on blogs distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors ("Blogs via Newstex") are solely the author's and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Posts from such authors are provided "AS IS", with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Blogs via Newstex are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. No content on such Blogs via Newstex is "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such blogs, nor take responsibility for any aspect of such blog content. All content on Blogs via Newstex shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees will be offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else offered on such Blogs via Newstex. Reader's comments reflect their individual opinion and their publication within Blogs via Newstex shall not infer or connote an endorsement by Newstex or its re-distributors of such reader's comments or views. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete posts and comments at its and their sole discretion.  
Load-Date: July 30, 2007

 

