


How Shah Rukh Khan reviewed Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, which made history at Oscars 2020
India Today Online
February 10, 2020 Monday 12:23 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 India Today All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 330 words
Body




Parasite made history at Oscars this year. It became the first non-English film to win Best Film in Oscar history. The film won in four categories, which include Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best Film and Best International Feature Film. With four Oscars, Parasite took over the award night.
While many Bollywood celebrities are raving about the film now, Bollywood's Badshah Shah Rukh Khan reviewed the film in October last year. Parasite was released in India on January 31.
Tweeting about the film, Shah Rukh Khan had written, "Just saw Parasite the South Korean movie on my kids recommendation. What a delightfully discomforting film. A bizarre look at social status, the state of the world...and the parasitic nature of the Materialistic Hope we all feed and live off!!"
 Just saw Parasite the South Korean movie on my kids recommendation. What a delightfully discomforting film. A bizarre look at social status, the state of the world...and the parasitic nature of the Materialistic Hope we all feed and live off!! Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) October 30, 2019
Parasite director Bong Joon Ho got a standing ovation at the Oscars 2020. Bong paid tribute to Martin Scorsese in his speech. "After winning best international feature, I thought I was done for the day and ready to relax," he joked. He went on to say, "When I was young and studying cinema there was saying that I carved deep into my heart, which is 'the most personal, is the most creative.' That quote was from our great Martin Scorsese."
Watch Parasite trailer here:
Parasite also won Best Motion Picture at Golden Globes this year.
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite makes Oscar history with Best Picture win
ALSO READ | Oscars 2020: Parasite director Bong Joon Ho cannot take eyes off his first Oscar trophy. Watch video
ALSO READ | How Parasite, a non-English film, made history at Oscars 2020
ALSO WATCH | Leonardo Di Caprio to Joaquin Phoenix, who is ahead in the Oscars 2020 race
Link to Image
 Graphic



 
How Shah Rukh Khan reviewed Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, which made history at Oscars 2020
 Load-Date: February 19, 2020

 

