


Movie Review: <i>The Host</i>
Desicritics.org
July 27, 2007 Friday 12:18 AM EST

 Copyright 2007 Newstex LLC
All Rights Reserved
Newstex Web Blogs
Copyright 2007 Desicritics.org
Length: 544 words
Byline: Aaman Lamba
Body




  Jul. 27, 2007 (Blogcritics.org delivered by Newstex) -- In the best tradition of monster movies, Korean flick The Host is both a frightening tale of very bad things that go bump in the night and a political film. From the grand-daddy of them all, King Kong, which took on colonialism, to the monster that ate Tokyo, Godzilla and it.s anti-nuclear warning, the monster-political genre has been a rich lode to mine for 
The Host, directed by Bong-Joon Ho, takes monster film stereotypes and partly upends them in favour of a enviro-political genre film, retaining the monster of course. Apparently inspired by actual events in a U.S. military base in South Korea, the film begins with a tyrannical scientist ordering his assistant to pour every last bottle of formaldehyde and other unspecified poisons down the drain pipe, which connects conveniently enough to the nearby Han river. 
Mucho bad chemicals later, and a few years hence, a fisherman lands a hefty catch. This one does not get away, rather, it is the fisherman that is the submarine monster.s lunch. Soon after, we get to the monster.s rise from the depths - it.s got a slightly goofy air to it, and is shaped somewhat like a cross between a velociraptor from Jurassic Park and a trout, or is that an aquatic lizard gone bad? There are significant periods of time with aqua-Zilla lurking underwater, as a family struggles to hunt down it.s hiding place in the sewers of the 
The parallel, political theme of the film starts up soon after the appearance of the monster, when the witnesses are taken away to an .undisclosed location. while scientists run a battery of tests on them, and politicians rack their brains for a plausible explanation. The American influence is palpable, as is the sense of a post-9/11 vibe. he framing of the fight against the monster in the context of one family.s personal struggle gives the film greater depth than making it a traditional hero-driven quest or a band of misfits and fallen angels against the evil dark lord kind of story. No, that was the Harry Potter review. 
Anyway, the monster continues to appear when you least expect it, inducing quite a few shocking (and not schlocky) moments. The family is separated, and lose one member at the monster.s hands. As they draw closer to the lizard.s lair, we learn that the US Military is planning a scorched-earth solution to the problem, using Agent Orange-style chemicals to blast the baddie to Axis of Evil territory, where it doubtless came from, as no good doctor would ever do such a horrific thing. The original bad doc being the commanding officer of the US science corps makes this more believable, 
The rampaging mutant is barely slowed by the chemical attack, and it takes the combined efforts of the decimated family to stop him. The action narrows its focus to their struggle, as we recognize that other dangers might like beneath the river.s surface, and wonder what potent combination might be getting brewed as a combination of the earlier and the more recent chemical 
Fortunately, we.ll find out soon enough. The Korean film industry is not immune to sequel-itis and            a follow-on to The Host has been announced. Perhaps this time, the monster will take on Chinese overtones and cause a bird flu >
 Notes



The views expressed on blogs distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors ("Blogs via Newstex") are solely the author's and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Posts from such authors are provided "AS IS", with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Blogs via Newstex are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. No content on such Blogs via Newstex is "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such blogs, nor take responsibility for any aspect of such blog content. All content on Blogs via Newstex shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees will be offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else offered on such Blogs via Newstex. Reader's comments reflect their individual opinion and their publication within Blogs via Newstex shall not infer or connote an endorsement by Newstex or its re-distributors of such reader's comments or views. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete posts and comments at its and their sole discretion.  
Load-Date: July 27, 2007

 

