


Where to Stream ‘Parasite’ and Other Big Oscar Winners
The New York Times 
February 11, 2020 Tuesday 11:50 EST

 Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: MOVIES
Length: 1908 words
Byline: Scott Tobias
Highlight: Nearly all of the night’s winners are available online to stream, rent or buy. Here’s at look at what they are and where to find them.  
Body




Nearly all of the night’s winners are available online to stream, rent or buy. Here’s at look at what they are and where to find them.
[Need help deciding what to watch on Netflix, Disney Plus or other streaming services? Subscribe to our Watching newsletter, which arrives twice weekly in your inbox.]
For Oscar viewers eager to catch up with            Bong Joon Ho’s “Parasite,” the first-ever non-English-language film to win Best Picture, the timing could not be better for streaming, because it’s just become available for rental. In fact, save for “Little Women,” “1917” and “Bombshell,” which only won in technical categories, every Oscar winner is currently streaming for a fee in digital media stores or on subscription services, and two of the three shorts are posted for free on YouTube. Bong’s twisty genre hybrid about a con that metastasizes into class warfare should be a priority, but it will be easier than usual to find out if the Academy got it right.
‘Parasite’
Won for: Best picture, director, original screenplay, international feature
Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
An underclass family infiltrates the home of a much wealthier clan in Bong Joon Ho’s impeccably orchestrated allegory about social inequality, which mixes and matches black comedy, social satire and the white-knuckle tension of a thriller. The less known about the plot, the better, given the escalating series of twists that Bong pulls off as the lives of his characters become more closely intertwined. His willingness to play with different genres and tones will be familiar to fans of his previous work, like “The Host” and “Snowpiercer,” (see where to stream those here) but rarely have they been more smoothly integrated. 
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Joker’
Won for: Best actor, original score
Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
Films based on DC Comics have tended to go darker than their Marvel counterparts, but “Joker” goes one step further, dispensing of the standard conflicts between hero and villain in favor of a deeper sociological bent. Anchored by Joaquin Phoenix’s performance as Arthur Fleck, a part-time clown and full-time mope who lives with his ailing mother in Gotham City, the film grafts the urban alienation of Martin Scorsese’s “Taxi Driver” and “The King of Comedy” onto the origin story of DC’s most famous villain. Where Heath Ledger’s Joker in “The Dark Knight” reflects a broken system, Phoenix’s Joker is the product of it.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Judy’
Won for: Best actress
Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
The Academy loves a splashy biopic performance, and Renée Zellweger locks into a doozy in Judy Garland, the transcendently gifted singer and actress whose triumphs on stage and screen were darkened by mental health issues and substance abuse. Rather than cover the full scope of her life, “Judy” focuses on her last year, when Garland’s sour reputation in America brings her to London in 1968. There, her efforts to revive her career are undermined by her persistent addiction. Zellweger captures both her vulnerably and her volatility as she struggles to put on one last great show.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood’
Won for: Best supporting actor, production design
Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
When it was announced that Quentin Tarantino was going to make a film about Charles Manson and the Sharon Tate murders, surely no one expected anything like “Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood,” which builds to that fateful night on Cielo Drive, but approaches it from a side angle. Through the fictional characters of the fading Western star Rick Dalton (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his faithful stunt double Cliff Booth (Brad Pitt), Tarantino revivifies Hollywood in the summer of ’69 and captures its turbulent undercurrents with the sensitivity of a seismograph. Before the inevitable spasms of violence, the film is a bittersweet elegy for the end of an era.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Marriage Story’
Won for: Best supporting actress
Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix.
Divorce has colored the life and work of the writer-director Noah Baumbach, and he brings all that experience to bear on “Marriage Story,” a comedy-drama about the agonies and possibilities of uncoupling. Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson are both superb as a creative couple who cannot come to terms amicably on their own, so they engage in an emotionally and financially costly legal dispute. Baumbach makes an enemy of the process, which brings out the worst in both of them, but even the lawyers have a human dimension, especially Laura Dern as a powerful L.A. attorney who approaches the job with empathy and aggression.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Jojo Rabbit’
Won for: Best adapted screenplay
Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
Turning Adolf Hitler into a little boy’s imaginary friend sounds like an unworkable conceit, but Taika Waititi’s nervy crowd-pleaser treats Der Führer as a Beatles-like phenomenon that whipped young people like Jojo Betzler (Roman Griffin Davis) into a nationalist frenzy. Jojo’s time in a Hitler Youth camp is like watching “Moonrise Kingdom” with Nazis, but Waititi undercuts the absurdity by detailing the boy’s relationship with a Jewish girl his mother (Scarlett Johansson) has hidden behind his bedroom walls. In the battle for his conscience, Hitler proves to be a formidable adversary.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘American Factory’
Won for: Best documentary
Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix.
When the Chinese glass company Fuyao reopens a Dayton, Ohio factory that once housed General Motors, many former G.M. employees return to the work force with the hope of renewed prosperity and cross-cultural harmony. The filmmakers Julia Reichert and Steven Bognar are present for that optimistic moment and they stay through the difficulties that follow, as differences in work ethic, employee safety and compensation open up a rift between Chinese management and disgruntled American line workers. The promise and peril of this globalist experiment is evoked through Reichert and Bognar’s compassionate eye.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Toy Story 4’
Won for: Best animated feature
Where to watch: Stream it on Disney Plus. Rent it on            iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
The breakout character in this Pixar sequel is Forky, a humble and dimwitted little spork with pipe-cleaner arms, misaligned googly eyes and Popsicle sticks for feet. He’s a charming creation who doubles a signal for the low-stakes ambition of “Toy Story 4,” which includes the expected Rube Goldberg set pieces and heartstring-tugging of the previous three, but feels more like a stand-alone adventure. Here Woody and the gang are waylaid at a carnival, where they reunite with Little Bo Peep, but have to face the possibility that life may send them on separate destinies.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Hair Love’
Won for: Best animated short
Where to watch: Stream it on YouTube.
From Kickstarter phenomenon to Oscar winner, “Hair Love,” directed by Matthew A. Cherry, Everett Downing Jr. and Bruce W. Smith, is about nothing more than a black father struggling to style his daughter’s seemingly untamable hair. But within that simple premise, played for equal parts whimsy and sentiment, the movie tells a story about black confidence and identity as well as the rewarding hard work of parenthood. Father and daughter don’t say a word to each other. They don’t need to.
[Read a feature article on the film.]
‘The Neighbor’s Window’
Won for: Best live-action short
Where to watch: Stream it on YouTube.
After three nominations for documentary Oscars — including one for “Street Fight,” about a young Cory Booker’s insurgent campaign for mayor of Newark — the director Marshall Curry finally wins one for a tight piece of short fiction that uses a “Rear Window” scenario to reflect on a rocky marriage. Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller star as the beleaguered parents of young children who naturally get jealous when a good-looking, amorous couple moves into the building across the street and doesn’t bother to put up drapes. But that grass-is-greener feeling dissipates as the strangers they’re watching turn out to have more complicated lives than they initially believe.
[Read the New York Times review of the Oscar nominated shorts.]
‘Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You’re a Girl)’
Won for: Best documentary short
Where to watch: Stream it on Hulu.
Founded in 2007, the nonprofit organization Skateistan has included skateboarding as part of a larger educational mission to serve disadvantaged children in Afghanistan, South Africa and Cambodia, 50% of them girls. Carol Dysinger’s 40-minute documentary short narrows the focus to Kabul, Afghanistan, where a brutal patriarchy has persisted after the Taliban. Many girls are denied access to schools and face restrictive and often violent conditions at home. At a secure facility, they’re taught how to read and write, but as the title promises, there are skateboarding lessons, too, intended to empower and delight them.
‘Ford v. Ferrari’
Won for: Best editing, sound editing
Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes,            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
The ultimate in Dad-friendly entertainment for a Sunday afternoon, James Mangold’s muscular gear head drama about the quest for supremacy between automakers in 1966 stays squarely within its lane, banking on nitro-charged racing sequences and old-fashioned star turns by Matt Damon and Christian Bale. Damon plays car designer Carroll Shelby, who’s commissioned by the Ford Motor Company to build a car fast enough to defeat the dominant Ferrari fleet at the 24 Hours of Le Mans. With the volatile Ken Miles (Bale) as his driver, Carroll and his team of engineers put together a winner through hard work, sweat and a lot of spit and bubble gum.
[Read the New York Times review.]
‘Rocketman’
Won for: Best Original Song
Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes. Rent it on            Amazon,            Vudu,            Google Play and            YouTube.
If this Elton John biopic feels like a more well-engineered piece of craftsmanship than last year’s Queen biopic “Bohemian Rhapsody,” it might be because Dexter Fletcher, who replaced Bryan Singer as the director of the earlier film late in production, was on board here from the beginning. “Rocketman” defies precisely none of the genre’s clichés, but the ascendence of young Reginald Dwight into the pop legend better known as Elton John is a satisfying arc nonetheless. Taron Egerton’s robust lead performance is one reason, but classic singles like “Saturday Night’s Alright for Fighting,” “Crocodile Rock” and “Your Song” give it the quality of a jukebox musical.
[Read the New York Times review.]
PHOTO: Clockwise from top left, scenes from “Parasite,” “Joker,” “Marriage Story” and “Judy.” (PHOTOGRAPH BY Clockwise from top left: Neon; Niko Tavernise/Warner Bros.; Wilson Webb/Netflix; Pathe FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Load-Date: May 6, 2020

 

