REVIEW: Parasite
City Times: San Diego City College
February 24, 2020 Monday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 350 words
Byline: Mikal Garcia
Body




I just saw the four-time Oscar-winning film "Parasite" and it did not disappoint. The film is completely subtitled, which I personally liked, and follows the Kims, a poor and unemployed family that con their way into becoming the servants of a rich family, the Parks.
The film takes place in present-day South Korea. The Kims con and manipulate the Parks, getting each of their family members a job at the Park house, one by one, pretending not to know each other. The film is directed by Bong Joon-ho, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Han Jin-won. It stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam and Jang Hye-jin. This film can be classified as a tragicomedy thriller.
The entire cast put on a strong performance and the film has a real-life aesthetic to it that makes you relate to and understand both families' side. There isn't a clear protagonist or antagonist, because in this film, hence the title, there is a parasitic relationship between both of the families. The Kims are using the Parks for their money and the Parks are using the Kims for their labor and time.
There isn't anything I didn't like about this film. For a subtitled film with two-hour run time, my attention never faded. I was drawn in the entire time. The pacing was great and the twists and reveals in the movie will have you guessing what's to come next.
A lesson that you can take from this is to always do background checks for the people you might have working with you.
Parasite won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best International Feature Film at the 92 Academy Awards. It was the first film to win Best International Feature since the category name was changed from Best Foreign Language Film and it was also the first international film to win Best Picture at the Academy Awards ever.
I think this is a film for audiences 18 and up. There is some violence, strong language, and sexual content in this film. I would recommend this to my mom or my friends around my age. This film is fantastic, I can understand why it won four Oscars.
#MikalsMovieRating 8.9/10
 Load-Date: February 24, 2020

 

End of Document


Bong Joon-ho walks away with Palme d'Or for Parasite at Cannes
Stillman Advance: Stillman College
May 28, 2019 Tuesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: CULTURE; Pg. 1
Length: 454 words
Byline: Julia Gonzales
Body




The Cannes jury were "bitten" by South Korean film Parasite, awarding it the topPalme d'Or prize on Saturday.
While accepting the award, Bong Joon Ho remarked, "The film "Parasite" was a surprising risk".
It is a handsomely made film, which runs as smoothly as a luxury auto.
"The film was made possible because of the great actors involved", said Bong.
For many critics, the choice for the top prize among the 21 contenders was especially hard at the world's most influential worldwide film festival.
The film by Diop, the first black female director ever in competition in Cannes, views the migrant crisis from the perspective of Senegalese women left behind after many young men flee by sea to Spain.
The movie, based on her 2009 short documentary, was Diop's first feature-length film.
Best actor went to Antonio Banderas for Pedro Almodovar's reflective drama "Pain and Glory". The decision to award Bong thePalme d'Or was a "unanimous" one for the nine-person jury, said jury president Alejandro Inarritu in the festival's closing ceremony. Celine Sciamma's period romance "Portrait of a Lady on Fire" was the Palme pick for many critics this year.
Sasha Obama sends the internet wild with prom photos
Flip through the gallery to see more of Malia and Sasha Obama's style moments throughout the years. Both Michelle and Malia were all smiles for the youngster's pre-prom festivities.
"It is a shared prize".
Britain's Emily Beecham was crowned best actress after starring in Jessica Hausner's Little Joe as a botanist who starts having doubts about her latest genetically-modified creation when it begins to affect her loved ones.
The jury prize, or third place, was split between two socially conscious thrillers: The French director Ladj Ly's feature-film debut Les Misérables and Brazilian director Kleber Mendonça Filho's Bacurau.Netflix has since withdrawn from the festival on the French Riveira.
"[Making] the filmParasite was an awesome adventure", Bong said after receiving the covetedPalme d'Or at the 72nd Festival de Cannes in France.
Congratulations to the film's cast and crew!
Filmmakers there have warned about tough times ahead for the Brazilian movie industry, after far-right President Jair Bolsonaro said he would battle "cultural Marxism" and reduced the remit of Brazil's culture ministry.
"It's been quite a strong year in all the competitions at Cannes", said Meredith Taylor, editor of arthouse film site Filmuforia, adding that she had handed out more four-star reviews than usual. "Now we don't really know what's going to happen", Mendonca said.
Among other prizes, Belgian filmmaking duo Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne jointly won the best director prize for their movie about a radicalized teen, Young Ahmed.
 Load-Date: May 29, 2019

 

End of Document


Parasite heads to HBO as a new limited series from original writer-director Bong Joon-ho and Adam McKay
MailOnline
January 9, 2020 Thursday 11:56 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: TV&SHOWBIZ; Version:2
Length: 426 words
Byline: Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com
Body




Just days after South Korean director Bong Joon Ho won the Best Foreign Language Picture for Parasite, he's taking the film to HBO for a new limited series.
HBO won a fierce bidding war for the rights to Parasite, beating out Netflix, according to The Hollywood Reporter. 
Bong will team up with Vice and The Big Short writer-director Adam McKay to adapt the original South Korean movie for an English-language limited series.
The original movie follows the impoverished Kim family (Song Kang-ho, Park So-dam, Choi Woo-sik and Jang Hye-jin), who slowly infiltrate the wealthy Park family (Lee Sun-kyun, Jo Yeu-jeong and Jung Ji-so).
The narrative weaves in a number of intricate twists with deadly consequences that explores the class system and elitism, and it's been an overwhelming critical favorite.
The film currently has a 99% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with just three negative reviews out of 349.
Aside from its Golden Globe win for Best Foreign Language Picture, Parasite was also nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay at the Globes.
It was also named the best film of the year by the National Board of Review, and given a special mention by the American Film Institute in their top 10 films of the year, 'designated for a work of excellence outside the Institute's criteria for American film.' 
Before it hit theaters, Parasite was named the unanimous winner of the prestigious Palme D'Or as the top film at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, and it has made dozens of critics' top 10 lists.
The film is also up for Best Ensemble at the SAG Awards, Best Screenplay at the Writers Guild of America Awards, Best Director at the Directors Guild of America Awards, Outstanding Performance by a Cast at the Screen Actors Guild Awards and many others.
It's considered to be a top contender for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar, and a possible Best Picture candidate as well when the nominations are announced January 13.
Parasite has earned $23.9 million at the domestic box office, an impressive figure considering it only played in 620 theaters at its highest rollout, with $130.9 million worldwide.
Both Bong and McKay will serve as executive producers alongside Dooho Choi, Miky Lee, Cho Young Ki and Francis Chung.
This project continues McKay's relationship with HBO, after he executive produced and directed the pilot episode for their current hit show Succession.
He's also developing a TV series about the 1980s 'Showtime' Los Angeles Lakers teams, and a limited series on Jeffrey Epstein as part of his five-year overall deal with the cable network. 
 Load-Date: January 10, 2020

 

End of Document


What 'Parasite' did for the Oscars, and what it didn't
Daily Princetonian: Princeton University
February 12, 2020 Wednesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 822 words
Body




History was made on Sunday night. For the first time in the Oscars' 92 years, a foreign language film, "Parasite," took home the award for Best Picture. As a Korean-American student who'd seen the film initially in Korea, I sat waiting by the screen, shocked and elated. Though the film was almost universally acclaimed by both moviegoers and critics alike, the win still came as a surprise. Many had lost hope for the Oscars; after the lingering problem of #OscarsSoWhite in 2015 and the disappointment of "Green Book" winning in 2019, it seemed like the acclaimed awards ceremony was becoming increasingly distant from the movement of masterful filmmaking and rewarding movies that many felt were patronizing to audiences of color. "Parasite" proved both to viewers and future artists, including students at Princeton and across the world, that new voices could change this past.
Looking at past Oscars history, it was unlikely that "Parasite," an incredible South Korean film, would have a chance at Best Picture. However, when the night ended and Bong Joon Ho was called to the stage for the fourth time (he also won Best Original Screenplay, Best International Film, and Best Director), it felt like something had changed. Finally, it seemed, the Oscars had rightfully acknowledged the talent and storytelling that surpassed identity, nation, and language. Across the internet, fans and critics alike celebrated the turning of a new leaf.
The movie's win was groundbreaking, a crucial moment in which international creative voices were finally brought into the picture. The United States, while often concerned with its own lack of representation, has almost always felt a need to separate from other countries and their art, regarding them as "special" yet somehow inferior. International film festivals such as Cannes rarely receive domestic attention, and foreign language films are usually presented with awards way before the stars of the night - domestic actors and films.
"Parasite" opened the eyes of American awards to the global arena of film, subtly threatening that if the Oscars didn't catch on, the rest of the world would move on. For many, it confirmed that the awards were still in touch with incredible filmmaking, choosing innovation, brilliance, and relevance over big names (Martin Scorsese, Quentin Tarantino) and pop culture icons ("Joker"). More than anything, the win asserted that a ceremony that appears as lofty as the Oscars still acknowledged the immediacy and pertinence of the film's message: a direct confrontation of economic inequality and the consequences of capitalism.
However, it's difficult to claim that "Parasite" saved the Oscars. Though it represented an important step forward, the film didn't free the awards ceremony from its previous criticisms. Despite an attempt to invite diverse performers - such as Janelle Monae or Chris Rock - glaring holes in the nominations were still present. Cynthia Erivo was the only person of color to receive an acting nomination. Once again, there were no women directors nominated, despite 2019 being a huge year for women in film, from Greta Gerwig's "Little Women" to Lulu Wang's "The Farewell."
Even the success of "Parasite" continues to illuminate resting prejudices in the Oscars and in the awards community in general. The history of Asian and Asian-American actors being ignored and devalued persists. The fact that none of the cast members received any acting nominations perpetuates the idea that, despite a great story, the idea of good acting as we understand it must be American. "Parasite" was the first film to win Best Picture without acting nominations since "Slumdog Millionaire" in 2009, another film with two main characters of color. Though Bong Joon Ho's name has been mentioned and celebrated throughout the awards season, many of the main actors' names are barely mentioned in articles and reviews. While "Parasite" may have been a masterpiece of filmmaking, this erasure labels international actors and filmmakers as still foreign, only to be understood as a collective identity.
Despite these continuing disparities, we should take this moment to commemorate such a historic win. When I first saw "Parasite" this past summer in Seoul, I was immediately struck by its intelligence and sensitivity, its revelations and twists. But even when it began to hit American theaters, I never expected much. I was familiar with the history of Asian and Asian-American stories, accustomed to the tradition of ignorance. Yet "Parasite" showed us all a new possible world of film, one where all stories and voices are recognized for talent, not identity - for universality, not familiarity. The Oscars are not perfect, but this weekend, "Parasite" opened new doors for all of us towards conversation and hope. For now, let's celebrate.
Kate Lee is a first-year from Austin, Texas. She can be reached at k.lee@princeton.edu
Suggested Articles
 Load-Date: February 14, 2020

 

End of Document


'Parasite', South Korean comedy about class rage, wins Cannes gold
The Bangkok Post (Thailand)
May 26, 2019 Sunday

 Copyright 2019 The Bangkok Post All Rights Reserved
Length: 831 words
Body




Bong Joon-Ho celebrates becoming the first Korean director to win the Palme d'Or       CANNES (FRANCE) - "Parasite", a black comedy about a family of clever scammers from South Korea's underclass, won the Palme d'Or top prize at Cannes on Saturday, the first time a Korean director has scooped the coveted award in the film festival's 72-year history. Bong Joon-ho, 49, best known for daring arthouse hits including "Okja" and "Snowpiercer", won for a satire which critics said powerfully tapped into the tensions caused by the widening gap between rich and poor around the world.
Accepting the prize from French movie legend Catherine Deneuve, Bong said winning at Cannes had been a lifelong dream."I was a little boy who was crazy about cinema since I was 12 years old," Bong said, hoisting the palm-frond statuette in the air.
"Parasite" is the second Asian film in a row to triumph at the world's biggest film festival. It tapped into similar themes explored by last year's winner, "Shoplifters" by Hirokazu Kore-eda about a family of small-time crooks, which shone a light on Japan's hidden poor.
Despite some of his strongest reviews in years, Quentin Tarantino failed to win anything for "Once Upon a Time..
. in Hollywood", which brought together two of Tinseltown's most dashing leading men, Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio, for the first time.
The first black woman to compete for Cannes' top prize, Mati Diop, was runner-up for "Atlantics", a chilling ghost story about Senegalese migrants dying at sea.Antonio Banderas got the best actor award for Pedro Almodovar's "Pain and Glory", a loosely autobiographical picture based on the director's colourful life.
An emotional Banderas said it was the first major prize of his 40-year career. "I respect him, I admire him, I love him, he's my mentor and he's given me so much," he said of Almodovar, who cast the actor in eight films and helped make him a global box office draw.
"This award has to be dedicated to him," he added.- 'Dark and difficult times' -Belgium's Dardenne brothers, two-time winners of the Palme d'Or, clinched the best director gong for "Young Ahmed" about a teenage boy who falls under the influence of an Islamist hate preacher.
Jean-Pierre Dardenne said the movie offered an ultimately optimistic vision "in these dark and difficult times with identitarian populism on the rise".Britain's Emily Beecham won best actress for "Little Joe", a feminist sci-fi thriller by Austrian director Jessica Hausner about the mysterious powers of a bio-engineered plant.
The third-place jury prize was shared by the gritty French police drama "Les Miserables" and Brazil's "Nighthawk", a darkly satirical Western seen as a searing indictment of life under the country's far-right President Jair Bolsonaro.Best screenplay went to France's Celine Sciamma, one of four women in competition, for "Portrait of a Woman on Fire", a lushly subversive lesbian love story set in the 18th century.
 - 'Worries, nightmares' -Many critics loved Tarantino's rollicking odyssey through the Los Angeles of 1969 in the period leading up to the Manson family murders, particularly Pitt's performance as a hoary stuntman.However the director -- who won the Palme d'Or 25 years ago for "Pulp Fiction" -- collected the Palm Dog prize Friday for Cannes' best canine performance, joking, "At least I do not go home empty-handed".
 The Camera d'Or for best first feature film went to Guatemala's Cesar Diaz for "Our Mothers", a drama about those "disappeared" during the country's brutal civil war.The jury gave a special mention to Palestinian film-maker Elia Suleiman's "It Must Be Heaven" about the experiences of an exile who goes on a meandering odyssey from his hometown of Nazareth to the streets of Paris and New York.
This year's jury president, Oscar-winning Mexican director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu of "Birdman" and "The Revenant" fame, said they selected films among the 21 contenders that tapped into the zeitgeist of a fraught era."These artists are visionaries who are.
..
 expressing those worries and frustrations, those nightmares," he said."Cinema now has the urgency of social consciousness expressed by people around the world.
"- 'Devastating electric shock' -"Parasite" tells the story of a young man living in a squalid apartment with his family who is struggling in Seoul's gig economy.Without formal qualifications, he charms his way into a job with a wealthy family, tutoring their precocious daughter in English.
Soon the tutor's parents and sister also manage to insinuate themselves into the household of the blithely privileged clan living in a luxury home high above the flood plain.Variety critic Jessica Kiang called the film "roaringly furious".
"'Parasite' is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class rage," she said.US movie website Indiewire called it a "brilliant and devastating electric shock of economic anxiety" and a "compassionate parable about how society can only be as strong as its most vulnerable people.
"
 Load-Date: May 27, 2019

 

End of Document


Post-Oscars, 'Parasite' Doubles Its Best Weekend Box Office
Indiewire Film
February 16, 2020

 Copyright 2020 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 1761 words
Body




As Neon basked in the afterglow of four Oscar wins including Best Picture for "           Parasite," the movie doubled its gross on its 19th weekend, by far its best showing. Universal's Oscar-winner "1917" also stayed strong in even more theaters, grossing higher still.
Neon also ruled the roost with another potential crossover film, Valentine's Day weekend entry "Portrait of a Lady on Fire." Céline Sciamma's period bodice-ripper, which returned to theaters after a one-week Oscar qualifying multi-city run, showed significant success in most locations, not only core specialized, but also more mainstream theaters.
Otherwise, weekend results continue mixed. Searchlight released marriage story "Downhill" wide to less than enthusiastic response, while Bleecker Street went limited with a modest reaction to their serious romantic drama "Ordinary Love." This was a weekend to spotlight films about couples, but Valentine's Day didn't deliver any significant boost.
The other standout opener was "The Times of Bill Cunningham" (Greenwich), which opened strong in two New York theaters despite the photographer having already been portrayed in another documentary.
Among the non-reporting films is "Corpus Christi" (Film Movement), the International Feature Film nominee from Poland, which had an advance run in Chicago this weekend and debuts in New York on Wednesday.
All grosses below are estimates for the three day weekend. The Presidents Day semi-holiday should add 10% or more to all of these figures.
Opening
Portrait of a Lady on Fire (Neon) - Metacritic: 95; Festivals include: Cannes, Telluride, Toronto, New York 2019
(reopening after December qualifying run)
$440,907 in 22 theaters; PTA: $20,041; Cumulative: $559,510
Neon follows up its huge subtitled success with "Parasite" with the biggest launch for a French film in many years. Sciamma's romance between two women, which some believed should have been the French Oscar entry, opened in two theaters for a week in December to top-level reviews (December numbers are in the cumulative total). Neon now brings it to six cities for its official opening.
The $20,000 PTA (which includes Thursday as well as some additional earlier shows) are outstanding. The four core New York/Los Angeles theaters - again not the first weekend for two of them - will have a PTA of over $40,000 for the three days. That's heading for phenomenal territory for a subtitled film.
Remember: before "Parasite" it had been several years since a specialized subtitled film grossed even $5 million domestic. It's early, but expect this to manage that and more.
What comes next: This opens in further markets this Friday with a steady expansion ahead.
Downhill (Searchlight) - Metacritic: 49; Festivals include: Sundance 2020
$4,671,000 in 2,301 theaters; PTA: $2,030
Though this remake initially opened wide, this specialty film from core supplier Searchlight premiered at Sundance. It's a remake of Swedish "Force Majeure," a recent subtitled arthouse success, and its directors previously made "Way Way Back." Given the film's two stars Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Will Ferrell, it made sense to open with a 2,301 theater Valentine's Day break. On paper the marital comedy showed commercial appeal, so going for the greater glory was logical (especially if strong reviews were not in the offing).
"Downhill" also landed a D Cinemascore, confirming that the public was not responsive. It will make the Top Ten, and grossed slightly ahead of pessimistic predictions. Its 26% drop after Friday (which was boosted by previews and Valentine's Day) is not a disaster, but it's hard to see this one sticking around much beyond next week.
What comes next: It might creep to as much as $5 million, which is less than such weak festival-launched movies with adult appeal as "Blinded by the Light" and "Late Night."
The Times of Bill Cunningham (Greenwich) - Metacritic: 68; Festivals include: New York 2018
$44,475 in 2 theaters; PTA: $22,238
This is an extraordinary performance, given that legendary New York Times street life photographer Bill Cunningham was already the subject of a 2011 documentary ("Bill Cunningham: New York"), which grossed over $1.5 million. Following his death, a second non-fiction portrait opened in two New York theaters for the best results for a documentary since last fall, as well as one of the top initial PTAs so far this year. The earlier film also had a strong start (adjusted over $35,000 in a single theater), but this result is equally impressive.
What comes next: Los Angeles opens this Friday, with top 50 markets included through March.
Ordinary Love (Bleecker Street) - Metacritic: 72; Festivals include:  Toronto 2019
$24,874 in 3 theaters; PTA: $8,291
This yielded decent reviews, especially for Liam Neeson and Lesley Manville as a couple coping with the wife's breast cancer. But top theater placement led to only a modest initial result. Saturday showed a decent 26% uptick so this might find decent word of mouth ahead.
What comes next: With seven new cities, this will be at 12 theaters to start its expansion this Friday.
Those Who Remained (Menemsha) -  Festivals include: Telluride 2019
$11,862 in 2 theaters; PTA: $5,931
Performing well in two South Florida theaters, this Hungarian post-World War II drama was shortlisted for the International Oscar and should land more upbeat reviews.
What comes next: New York and Los Angeles theaters open later on May 8.
I Was at Home, But... (Cinema Guild) - Metacritic: 64; Festivals include: Berlin, Toronto, New York 2019
$6,115 in 1 theater; PTA: $6,115
German director Angela Schanelec has earned a festival reputation so far,  but her profile is growing. Her most recent film, a family drama involving a mysterious disappearance, opened at the Film Society of Lincoln Center in New York to a respectable result.
What comes next: This won't be a mainstream art title, but is getting some key theaters. These include Los Angeles and Chicago on February 28.
Week Two
The Lodge (Neon)
$126,000 in 21 theaters (+15); PTA: $6,000; Cumulative: $226,001
Neon is adding more cities to this mainstream though still limited genre release, which is working best with younger audiences, especially at Neon partner Alamo Drafthouse locations.
And Then We Danced (Music Box)
$22,406 in 7 theaters (+5); PTA: $3,201; Cumulative: $42,040
The second-week expansion includes three Los Angeles theaters. The numbers for this Georgian/Swedish production about a sexually repressive dance couple are modest but reasonable for a less-known subtitled new release. They suggest enough interest to lead to a wider break.
Ongoing/Expanding (grosses over $50,000)
1917 (Universal) Week 9
$8,090,000 in 3,084 theaters (-464); Cumulative: $144,400,000
What Best Picture loss? Sure a win would have been a bigger boost, but this fell only 12% nonetheless. Sam Mendes' popular war film still looks to end up with a very strong domestic take over $170 million.
Parasite  (Neon) Week 19; also on Video on Demand
$5,501,000 in 2,001 theaters (+941); Cumulative: $43,188,000
Oscar is not dead. And when social media cranks out video of Director Bong finally returning to Seoul, you know something special is going on. But the grosses show that as well. Despite inexpensive home-viewing alternatives, this had by far the highest post-win weekend of any Best Picture winner since "The King's Speech" nine years ago. And that was in the pre-streaming era for a film which did three times as much business as "Parasite" so far.
That this is a subtitled film makes this ongoing performance even more exquisite. "Parasite" looks likely to add $15 million or more to its pre-win total and pass $50 million. That would put it ahead of four of the last nine winners, all of which -natch-were in English.
Jojo Rabbit (Searchlight) Week 18
$900,000 in 484 theaters (-612); Cumulative: $31,800,000
The delayed home availability and anticipation of realized Oscar success has added over $11 million to Taika Waititi's film's gross.
Just Mercy (Warner Bros.) Week 9
$765,000 in 864 theaters (-469); Cumulative: $34,745,000
Late in its run, this Michael B. Jordan/Jamie Foxx capital punishment true story still maintains a significant national footprint with a decent result since its Christmas platform debut.
The Assistant (Bleecker Street) Week 3
$212,352 in 82 theaters (+57); Cumulative: $484,009
This acclaimed and sensitive film about the insidious damage caused in a #MeToo infected workplace is widening quickly to continued modest interest. It will get a maximized push by Bleecker Street, but doesn't look like it will expand much beyond specialized locations.
2020 Oscar Nominated Shorts (Magnolia) Week 3
$(est.) 140,000 in 115 theaters (-421); Cumulative: $(est.) 3,093,000
Despite getting one less week to play (because of the truncated Oscar calendar), this annual compilation of shorts will end up with about 90% of the gross of last year's record setting run.
Uncut Gems (A24) Week 10
$172,094 in 218 theaters (-924); Cumulative: $49,771,000
Interest continues late in the run for A24's biggest grosser, soon to reach $50 million without the usual 10% boost of Canadian dates (where it was limited due to its Netflix platform there).
Bombshell (Lionsgate) Week 10
$125,000 in 128 theaters (-144); Cumulative: $31,397,000
This Oscar winner should find a healthy afterlife post-theatrical, but figure this to be about the end of the first run for this recreation of the toxic Fox News environment.
The Last Full Measure (Roadside Attractions) Week 4
$89,400 in 121 theaters (-496); Cumulative: $2,766,000
This quest for recognition for a Vietnam hero true story lost most of its theaters but added to its gross which will end up close to $3 million.
Weathering With You (GKids) Week 6
$68,400 in 32 theaters (-76); Cumulative: $7,690,000
The remaining theaters continue to have a decent response for this Japanese animated film.
The Traitor (Sony Pictures Classics) Week 3
$52,623 in 29 theaters (+12); Cumulative: $146,818
Veteran Italian director Marco Bellocchio's Sicilian heroin trade drama is still in early stages of top-city release, with mediocre results. With SPC behind it, expect further extensive play in all cities.
Also noted:
The Song of Names (Sony Pictures Classics) - $38,842 in 51 theaters; Cumulative: $997,163
Pain and Glory (Sony Pictures Classics) - $18,847 in 19 theaters; Cumulative: $4,547,000; also on Video on Demand
Created Equal: Clarence Thomas in His Own Words (Blue Fox) - $16,196 in 17 theaters; Cumulative: $200,793
Sign Up: Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Email Newsletters here.
 Load-Date: February 16, 2020

 

End of Document


Post-Oscars, 'Parasite' Doubles Its Best Weekend Box Office
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
February 16, 2020 Sunday 7:06 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1830 words
Byline: Tom Brueggemann
Body




Feb 16, 2020( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  As Neon[1] basked in the afterglow of four Oscar wins including Best Picture for 'Parasite[2],' the movie doubled its gross on its 19th weekend, by far its best showing. Universal's Oscar-winner '1917' also stayed strong in even more theaters, grossing higher still. Neon also ruled the roost with another potential crossover film, Valentine's Day weekend entry 'Portrait of a Lady on Fire[3].' Cline Sciamma's period bodice-ripper, which returned to theaters after a one-week Oscar qualifying multi-city run, showed significant success in most locations, not only core specialized, but also more mainstream theaters. Otherwise, weekend results continue mixed. 
Searchlight released marriage story 'Downhill[4]' wide to less than enthusiastic response, while Bleecker Street went limited with a modest reaction to their serious romantic drama 'Ordinary Love.' This was a weekend to spotlight films about couples, but Valentine's Day didn't deliver any significant boost. The other standout opener was 'The Times of Bill Cunningham' (Greenwich), which opened strong in two New York theaters despite the photographer having already been portrayed in another documentary. Among the non-reporting films is 'Corpus Christi' (Film Movement), the International Feature Film nominee from Poland, which had an advance run in Chicago this weekend and debuts in New York on Wednesday. All grosses below are estimates for the three day weekend. The Presidents Day semi-holiday should add 10% or more to all of these figures.OpeningPortrait of a Lady on Fire(Neon) - Metacritic: 95; Festivals include: Cannes, Telluride, Toronto, New York 2019 (reopening after December qualifying run) $440,907 in 22 theaters; PTA: $20,041; Cumulative: $559,510 Neon follows up its huge subtitled success with 'Parasite' with the biggest launch for a French film in many years. Sciamma's romance between two women, which some believed should have been the French Oscar entry, opened in two theaters for a week in December to top-level reviews (December numbers are in the cumulative total). Neon now brings it to six cities for its official opening. The $20,000 PTA (which includes Thursday as well as some additional earlier shows) are outstanding. The four core New York/Los Angeles theaters — again not the first weekend for two of them — will have a PTA of over $40,000 for the three days. That's heading for phenomenal territory for a subtitled film. Remember: before 'Parasite' it had been several years since a specialized subtitled film grossed even $5 million domestic. It's early, but expect this to manage that and more. What comes next: This opens in further markets this Friday with a steady expansion ahead. Downhill(Searchlight) - Metacritic: 49; Festivals include: Sundance 2020 $4,671,000 in 2,301 theaters; PTA: $2,030 Though this remake initially opened wide, this specialty film from core supplier Searchlight premiered at Sundance. It's a remake of Swedish 'Force Majeure,' a recent subtitled arthouse success, and its directors previously made 'Way Way Back.' Given the film's two stars Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Will Ferrell, it made sense to open with a 2,301 theater Valentine's Day break. On paper the marital comedy showed commercial appeal, so going for the greater glory was logical (especially if strong reviews were not in the offing). 'Downhill' also landed a D Cinemascore, confirming that the public was not responsive. It will make the Top Ten, and grossed slightly ahead of pessimistic predictions. Its 26% drop after Friday (which was boosted by previews and Valentine's Day) is not a disaster, but it's hard to see this one sticking around much beyond next week. What comes next: It might creep to as much as $5 million, which is less than such weak festival-launched movies with adult appeal as 'Blinded by the Light' and 'Late Night.' The Times of Bill Cunningham(Greenwich) - Metacritic: 68; Festivals include: New York 2018 $44,475 in 2 theaters; PTA: $22,238 This is an extraordinary performance, given that legendary New York Times street life photographer Bill Cunningham was already the subject of a 2011 documentary ('Bill Cunningham: New York'), which grossed over $1.5 million. Following his death, a second non-fiction portrait opened in two New York theaters for the best results for a documentary since last fall, as well as one of the top initial PTAs so far this year. The earlier film also had a strong start (adjusted over $35,000 in a single theater), but this result is equally impressive. What comes next: Los Angeles opens this Friday, with top 50 markets included through March. Ordinary Love(Bleecker Street) - Metacritic: 72; Festivals include: Toronto 2019 $24,874 in 3 theaters; PTA: $8,291 This yielded decent reviews, especially for Liam Neeson and Lesley Manville as a couple coping with the wife's breast cancer. But top theater placement led to only a modest initial result. Saturday showed a decent 26% uptick so this might find decent word of mouth ahead. What comes next: With seven new cities, this will be at 12 theaters to start its expansion this Friday. Those Who Remained (Menemsha) - Festivals include: Telluride 2019 $11,862 in 2 theaters; PTA: $5,931 Performing well in two South Florida theaters, this Hungarian post-World War II drama was shortlisted for the International Oscar and should land more upbeat reviews. What comes next: New York and Los Angeles theaters open later on May 8. I Was at Home, But(Cinema Guild) - Metacritic: 64; Festivals include: Berlin, Toronto, New York 2019 $6,115 in 1 theater; PTA: $6,115 German director Angela Schanelec has earned a festival reputation so far, but her profile is growing. Her most recent film, a family drama involving a mysterious disappearance, opened at the Film Society of Lincoln Center in New York to a respectable result. What comes next: This won't be a mainstream art title, but is getting some key theaters. These include Los Angeles and Chicago on February 28.Week TwoThe Lodge(Neon) $126,000 in 21 theaters (+15); PTA: $6,000; Cumulative: $226,001 Neon is adding more cities to this mainstream though still limited genre release, which is working best with younger audiences, especially at Neon partner Alamo Drafthouse locations. And Then We Danced(Music Box) $22,406 in 7 theaters (+5); PTA: $3,201; Cumulative: $42,040 The second-week expansion includes three Los Angeles theaters. The numbers for this Georgian/Swedish production about a sexually repressive dance couple are modest but reasonable for a less-known subtitled new release. They suggest enough interest to lead to a wider break.Ongoing/Expanding(grosses over $50,000)1917(Universal) Week 9 $8,090,000 in 3,084 theaters (-464); Cumulative: $144,400,000 What Best Picture loss? Sure a win would have been a bigger boost, but this fell only 12% nonetheless. Sam Mendes' popular war film still looks to end up with a very strong domestic take over $170 million. Parasite (Neon) Week 19; also on Video on Demand $5,501,000 in 2,001 theaters (+941); Cumulative: $43,188,000 Oscar is not dead. And when social media cranks out video of Director Bong finally returning to Seoul, you know something special is going on. But the grosses show that as well. Despite inexpensive home-viewing alternatives, this had by far the highest post-win weekend of any Best Picture winner since 'The King's Speech' nine years ago. And that was in the pre-streaming era for a film which did three times as much business as 'Parasite' so far. That this is a subtitled film makes this ongoing performance even more exquisite. 'Parasite' looks likely to add $15 million or more to its pre-win total and pass $50 million. That would put it ahead of four of the last nine winners, all of which -natch-were in English. Jojo Rabbit(Searchlight) Week 18 $900,000 in 484 theaters (-612); Cumulative: $31,800,000 The delayed home availability and anticipation of realized Oscar success has added over $11 million to Taika Waititi's film's gross. Just Mercy(Warner Bros.) Week 9 $765,000 in 864 theaters (-469); Cumulative: $34,745,000 Late in its run, this Michael B. Jordan/Jamie Foxx capital punishment true story still maintains a significant national footprint with a decent result since its Christmas platform debut. The Assistant(Bleecker Street) Week 3 $212,352 in 82 theaters (+57); Cumulative: $484,009 This acclaimed and sensitive film about the insidious damage caused in a #MeToo infected workplace is widening quickly to continued modest interest. It will get a maximized push by Bleecker Street, but doesn't look like it will expand much beyond specialized locations. 2020 Oscar Nominated Shorts(Magnolia) Week 3 $(est.) 140,000 in 115 theaters (-421); Cumulative: $(est.) 3,093,000 Despite getting one less week to play (because of the truncated Oscar calendar), this annual compilation of shorts will end up with about 90% of the gross of last year's record setting run. Uncut Gems(A24) Week 10 $172,094 in 218 theaters (-924); Cumulative: $49,771,000 Interest continues late in the run for A24's biggest grosser, soon to reach $50 million without the usual 10% boost of Canadian dates (where it was limited due to its Netflix platform there). Bombshell(Lionsgate) Week 10 $125,000 in 128 theaters (-144); Cumulative: $31,397,000 This Oscar winner should find a healthy afterlife post-theatrical, but figure this to be about the end of the first run for this recreation of the toxic Fox News environment. The Last Full Measure(Roadside Attractions) Week 4 $89,400 in 121 theaters (-496); Cumulative: $2,766,000 This quest for recognition for a Vietnam hero true story lost most of its theaters but added to its gross which will end up close to $3 million. Weathering With You(GKids) Week 6 $68,400 in 32 theaters (-76); Cumulative: $7,690,000 The remaining theaters continue to have a decent response for this Japanese animated film. The Traitor(Sony Pictures Classics) Week 3 $52,623 in 29 theaters (+12); Cumulative: $146,818 Veteran Italian director Marco Bellocchio's Sicilian heroin trade drama is still in early stages of top-city release, with mediocre results. With SPC behind it, expect further extensive play in all cities. Also noted: The Song of Names (Sony Pictures Classics) - $38,842 in 51 theaters; Cumulative: $997,163 Pain and Glory(Sony Pictures Classics) - $18,847 in 19 theaters; Cumulative: $4,547,000; also on Video on Demand Created Equal: Clarence Thomas in His Own Words(Blue Fox) - $16,196 in 17 theaters; Cumulative: $200,793 Sign Up: Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Email Newsletters here.[5] [ 1]: https://www.indiewire.com/t/neon/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 3]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/portrait-of-a-lady-on-fire/ [ 4]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/downhill/ [ 5]:            http://pages.email.indiewire.com/newslettersignup 
 Load-Date: February 16, 2020

 

End of Document


Parasite and the year of Class Struggle in Film
The Quad: West Chester University
March 2, 2020 Monday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1
Length: 716 words
Byline: Kelly Baker
Body




Photo by Kinocine PARKJEAHWAN4wiki via Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA 4.0)
2019 was an all-around good year for movies, but something occurred to me after I finished watching "Parasite" for the first time. The South Korean film, by the now Academy Award winning director Bong Joon-Ho, has been the proverbial talk of the town among movie critics and filmmakers around Hollywood and the internet. Having seen "Parasite" today, I can say, without any doubt in my mind, that it certainly deserves all the praise it gets. However, this column is not a review for "Parasite" itself, but rather an important theme that is central to "Parasite," and several other films this year: the theme of class division.
"Parasite," "Ready or Not," "Hustlers," "Knives Out" and "Joker" have all been outspoken in their ideas about the divide between the working class and the bourgeoisie. "Hustlers" was about a group of exotic dancers scamming Wall Street suits for their part in the 2008 subprime mortgage scandal. "Ready or Not" follows a young bride-to-be from a working class background as she is hunted like an animal by her fiance's rich family. "Knives Out" deals with a group of people from both sides of the class divide fighting over a dead author's estate. "Joker" deals with a working class man beaten down by a late-capitalist society until he cannot take it anymore and fights back.
It's not unusual for Hollywood and non-Hollywood screenwriters to craft narratives about class divides. Several big examples include such works like "Taxi Driver," "Spartacus" and even "Titanic." What is unusual is for many of these movies to be released within the same year. It is unusual for Hollywood screenwriters to be so vocal about the widening class divides in our society and for all of these films to feel so raw and relevant to how moviegoers feel today.
Years back, many Hollywood screenwriters, and by extension studios, were afraid of making movies that were too outspoken about the divide between the rich and the poor for fear of being blacklisted. Even after the Hollywood blacklist ended, in the neoliberalism era, it seemed as if studios weren't interested in making such movies with an emphasis on lass divides, possibly out of fear of being "too controversial" and hurting box-office winnings.
However, since we now have been living in an era of late capitalism, arguably since 2008, Hollywood screenwriters have become more and more bold. Does this mean that all Hollywood screenwriters have been reading Marxist theory for the last few years? Probably not, but it may be because of something that has been central to all forms of art since the time of the ancient Greeks and beyond. That is, all great works of art can be seen as a parable of the times they were made in.
Hollywood movies often act as an opiate for the woes of our daily lives, but some movies prefer to stay as close to real life and current events as possible. These movies act as a parable to our lives and the problems we face, even if the names and locations may be changed. Such movies can be uncomfortable because they remind us of what's wrong with the world, but in a way, it's important that they do. We could stick our proverbial heads in the sand with escapist fantasies, or force ourselves to look at the harsh truth about our world.
Each of the films this year have been forthright in their ideas about what's wrong in the world in ways that we can't help but agree with, sometimes in subtle ways or as loud as a bomb. "Parasite" acknowledged that while the upper class may be cheerful and friendly, they inadvertently see the lower classes as little more than robots. "Joker" makes a strong case for treating social services as important for the working class and respecting people suffering from mental illness. "Hustlers" acknowledged that there was no serious punishment for people responsible for the 2008 subprime mortgage scandal. Finally, "Ready or Not," although an exaggeration, correctly pointed out how the bourgeoisie often profit of the suffering of the lower classes.
These movies about class struggle have got all of us talking and thinking about one of the biggest issues of our time. All I can say to these screenwriters is to keep up the good work!        
Kelly Baker is a WCU alumnus. KB819687@wcupa.edu
 Load-Date: March 2, 2020

 

End of Document


Oscar-winning 'Parasite' copied from Vijay's Minsara Kanna? Tamil producer to sue makers
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times India
February 15, 2020 Saturday 7:06 AM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 641 words
Body




Feb 15, 2020( International Business Times India: http://ibtimes.co.in Delivered by Newstex)  Joaquin Phoenix wins OSCAR for best actor The South Korean film 'Parasite' made waves around the world, as it went on to gain international recognition for its plot and won numerous coveted awards, including the Academy Awards, BAFTA, Golden Globe, the list is endless. What was even more impressive was that it was the first non-English film to make this sort of impact on the West. While the reaction to 'Parasite' has been mostly positive as the film continues to garner more accolades, there is a section that is crying foul over the movie. 
Now, the producer of Minsara Kanna, PL Thenappan is planning to sue the makers of the Oscar-winning film and has been vocal about taking legal action. 'Parasite' versus 'Minsara Kanna' two films, same plot? The dark comedy thriller 'Parasite' directed by Bong Joon-Ho, starring Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik and Park So-dam is centred on a family scheming to become part of a wealthy household through deceit and entering as highly qualified individuals. The film received positive reviews for the filmmaking, acting and smart plot. The film though has come under the scanner for being similar in plot to Minsara Kanna, the 1999 Tamil [1]film starring Vijay[2]. Minsara Kanna, on the other hand, focusses on the love story between Kannan played by Vijay and Indira played by Monica Castellino. In this film, Vijay enters Indira's house pretending to be somebody else in order to convince her to be with him. While the basic plot of the two films looking at the class conflict appears to be similar, it would be hard to discern whether the two films are exactly the same. Further, PL Thenappan has been considering seriously taking the accusation forward. He also informed the media that he will hire an international lawyer and take the legal route in this regard. Previously KS Ravikumar also spoke about how he was happy he had chosen to make an Oscar-worthy film twenty years ago. The public verdict regarding Parasite and Minsara Kanna The debate continues and makers of the two films decide whether or not to sort it out. In the meantime, fans and audiences on Twitter[3]are expressing their views on the issue. There are many who believe the similarities are clear and evident:Thanks Oscars for appreciating Korean Minsara Kanna — Balaji Gopal (@gopalbalaji) February 10, 2020[4] I can't believe Minsara Kanna won the Best picture academy award ? — Jawa Kumar (@jawa_kumar) February 10, 2020[5] However, there are those who think not: if you say that the parasite has similar story with Minsara Kanna then accept the fact that the their was copied from Jason film (Homefront) — Muralidharan (@Muralikris98) February 11, 2020[6] minsara kanna is literally a rom com and you're comparing that to parasite i have no words. — ?⁷ (@pearltaes) February 15, 2020[7] ppl r really saying parasite is a rip off of minsara kanna... the ppl saying that probably havent watched parasite and just wanna start a fight.. — #⃝rin⁷ (@enbyvmon) February 15, 2020[8] Will 'Parasite' now have to make amends or will the issue blow over? Only time will tell. [ 1]: https://www.ibtimes.co.in/topics/tamil-nadu [ 2]:            https://www.ibtimes.co.in/topics/vijay [ 3]:            https://www.ibtimes.co.in/topics/twitter [ 4]:            https://twitter.com/gopalbalaji/status/1226919601759387648?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 5]:            https://twitter.com/jawa_kumar/status/1226730347401842688?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 6]:            https://twitter.com/Muralikris98/status/1227176349766316032?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 7]:            https://twitter.com/pearltaes/status/1228530747843084290?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 8]:            https://twitter.com/enbyvmon/status/1228533568193757185?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
 Load-Date: February 15, 2020

 

End of Document


'Just Mercy,' 'Waves', 'Parasite, 'Beautiful Day' at SCAD Savannah Film Festival
Newstex Blogs 
Awards Daily
November 4, 2019 Monday 3:20 AM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1297 words
Byline: Megan McLachlan
Body




Nov 04, 2019( Awards Daily: http://www.awardsdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Megan McLachlan is in Savannah, Ga., for SCAD Savannah Film Festival, Oct. 26 through Nov. 2.We've reached the end of the 2019 SCAD Savannah Film Festival, and I loved getting to see some of the best films of the year, all in one week. The festival loaded some of the most buzzed-about Oscar contenders toward the end, including Parasite, which played to a packed Lucas Theatre for the Arts on Friday night. 
Hollywood Reporter's Scott Feinberg even tweeted[1] that it was the 'hottest ticket' of the festival. But that wasn't the only hot ticket. A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood also performed to a packed house on the final night and had people moved to tears over it, including Rotten Tomatoes Awards Editor Jacqueline Coley, who during a Q...ollowing the film admitted that she'd seen it twice and cried each time. Here's a look at the films showcased during the final nights of the SCAD Savannah Film Festival.Just MercyBased on the incredible true story, Just Mercy (directed by Destin Daniel Cretton) recalls how civil rights defense attorney Bryan Stevenson (Michael B. Jordan) took on the case of inmate Walter McMillian (Jamie Foxx), who was put on death row a year before his case even went to trial (yes, really). Naturally, with heavy-hitters like Jordan and Foxx, one would think this would be these two going head to head in every scene, but there are two supporting players who are scene-stealers. First is Rob Morgan, whose character Herbert Richardson is a Vietnam vet suffering from post-traumatic stress. On death row like McMillian, Richardson admits to his crime (he planted a bomb on a woman's doorstep), but he was never given adequate law support when his case went to trial and admittedly should have been placed in an institution. Morgan stutters and stammers and clearly appears to be a man shook by events in his past. His story culminates in one of the most unforgettable scenes of the year. The second memorable supporting player is Tim Blake Nelson as Ralph Myers, an inmate whose story provides the whole basis for McMillian's original trial. Nelson (who also appears in The Report) puckers his face and twists his body, and while for some part of the movie he serves as a villain, he proves to be a victim of the justice system like inmates Richardson and McMillian, a system rigged against the poor and people of color (or both). Also in the cast is Brie Larson as Stevenson's assistant Eva Ansley, a part that's terribly underwritten, with Larson mostly reserved for flabbergasted swears in a Southern accent. Martin Scorsese recently came under fire on Twitter for not having enough female characters in his movies, but when it's done like this, I think it's OK to leave them out. Overall, Just Mercy continues this year's festival theme of wrongfully imprisoned (see Clemency, The Report), and I'm glad I saw it after the other films because it provides hope and leaves you on a high note.WavesWriter/director Trey Edward Schults follows up 2017's It Comes At Night,a post-apocalyptic family drama starring Joel Edgerton and Christopher Abbott, with a modern-day family drama set in South Florida starring Sterling K. Brown, Kelvin Harrison Jr., and Taylor Russell. Putting them side by side, I would have never guessed it came from the same director, even if the themes are similar in the complexities of relationships. Waves sneaks up on you, and the trailer for it definitely doesn't do it justice. In fact, the trailer wisely leaves you in the dark on what the film is truly about. It took me on an emotional roller coaster ride. Without getting spoiler-y, Waves works in two parts and pivots to a different point of view halfway through the movie. Kelvin Harrison Jr.'s Tyler plays a high school student under a lot of pressure, to be a top athlete in wrestling and to be better in the eyes of his father. And yet, another key component of this story is virtually missing from the first half of the film, and only later do we get to see that side of the story. While the film will definitely conjure up comparisons to Moonlight, in its South Florida setting and focus on a black family, the comparisons stop there, because Waves stands on its own as a thoughtful study into a devastating family dynamic.ParasiteI get nervous when a movie has hype, because that buildup sometimes becomes so exponential that my expectations can never reach it. But Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite lives up to the hype across the board. The premise of the film almost starts out like a sitcom. A poor family (the Kims), living in filth in a basement apartment, infiltrates a wealthy family (the Parks) by landing jobs as members of their staff, including English tutor, art therapist, driver, and housekeeper—all under the guise that they are not related to each other and based simply on recommendation. In addition to observations about the haves and have-nots, Parasite makes sharp commentary on 'review' culture, with Mrs. Park (Yeo-jeong Jo) blindly appointing strangers to be alone with her children and in her house simply based on domino-like recommendations from each staff member, without using her own experience and intelligence to trust in her own sound judgment. Then something truly strange happens that completely twists this story. And even though Parasite takes place outside of the United States, the themes are universal for any audience. While watching, I wondered what director might want to do an 'American' remake with 'white trash' hicks infiltrating an affluent family, but then I realized The Simpsons kind of already did this in the episode 'Bart Carny,' so maybe that will deter an American remake, because this film should stand alone in the sewage water it rose up from.A Beautiful Day in the NeighborhoodI'll admit it. As a Pittsburgher, I was a little skeptical when I first saw Tom Hanks in that promo photo as Mister Rogers, because no one can be Mister Rogers. Period. No one looks like him, sounds like him, or acts like him. But director Marielle Heller wisely told the two-time Academy Award winner not to do an impression, and instead, he captures Fred Rogers's essence and tone in a way I never thought he could (although, c'mon, it's Tom Hanks! How could I have doubted him?). Hanks truly astounds in this performance. We're so used to seeing him in parts where he dominates every scene (think Castaway, his last Oscar-nominated role, the fact of which is completely absurd). Here, he takes a backseat (well, maybe a passenger seat) to Matthew Rhys's Lloyd Vogel, even if Fred Rogers's presence is still felt throughout. Rhys is also excellent and should not get lost in the Oscar conversation, even if this year's Best Actor race is congested. Not only is this a love letter to Mister Rogers, but Marielle Heller's direction also pays homage to the iconic direction of the show. The film even acts as an episode of the series, with Rogers (or 'Roge' as Joanne Rogers calls him) teaching a lesson about, and to, Lloyd Vogel. This inventive approach can also be credited to writers Noah Harpster (who also has a part in the film) and Micah Fitzerman-Blue, who take what could be a saccharine script and ground it with humanity (even Fred Rogers himself makes mistakes). I'm glad I went to see it with a crowd of non-Pittsburghers, because as a resident, I didn't have to deal with people cheering every time someone said 'Pittsburgh,' even though I internally laughed when Hanks said, 'La-trobe' instead of 'Lay-trobe.' It was a great film to end the festival on, with the idea that the world could still use a little more Mister Rogers in it. What a great fest! See you next year. [ 1]: https://twitter.com/ScottFeinberg/status/1190488456054661122 
 Load-Date: November 21, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' No Slug At The B.O. With $20M+: Bong Joon Ho Palme d'Or Winner To Bust Into Top 10 Grossing Foreign Language Pics List
Deadline
December 15, 2019

 Copyright 2019 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 597 words
Body




In its tenth weekend at the box office in a limited release at 306 theaters, NEON's            Parasite continues to suck up cash and counts $20.3M at the domestic box office. At that B.O. level, for a film that's from a foreign country and entirely in a different language, Parasite is very, very close to busting into the top 10 foreign language films of all-time list, which is headed by 2000's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon at $128M.
This is a remarkable feat for Parasite, demonstrating that foreign films can still cross over stateside in a massive way. Also at a time when some believe that streaming has swallowed up specialty films in their entirety with pics like Roma and Marriage Story, sorry, but No: Theatrical is still king.
Parasite became the highest grossing Palme D'Or winner in France and North America in 15 years since the release of Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11 in 2004 ($119.1M domestic, $222.4M worldwide).
In the wake of winning the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival and opening on Nov. 8 stateside, Parasite continues to hold the best opening screen average of the year with $131K (at three theaters) in the wake of such 4Q competition from Jojo Rabbit, and this weekend's Uncut Gems and Bombshell. 
To date the pic has amassed 3 Golden Globe noms for best film drama, best director and best foreign film, a SAG cast ensemble nom, 7 Critics Choice noms including Best Picture, an Independent Spirit Nom for foreign film; best film, director and supporting actor (Kang-ho Song) from the LA Film Critics, Best foreign film from the National Board of Review and NY Film Critics among many other honors.
Note, in our top foreign language domestic list we're not counting U.S. born wide releases like Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ which was fueled by faith-based crowds and was in Aramaic (making $370.7M stateside), nor are we counting the flimmaker's Disney major studio release of Apocalypto which was in Mayan ($50.8M). Rather, movies from foreign countries that were released on the specialty circuit and crossed over to the masses. This list would include Mexico's Eugenio Derbez's Instructions Not Included (even though it's in Spanish and English) which was released by Lionsgate's Pantelion Films and made $44.4M, now ranked in 4th place behind Sony Pictures Classics' 4x Oscar winner Crouching Tiger, Miramax's three-time Oscar winner Life Is Beautiful ($57.2M), and Miramax's Hero ($53.7M).
Parasite, now ranked 11th, will very soon takeover MGM's 1979 release of La Cage Aux Folles ($20.4M) for 10th place and could very well with its continued awards season theatrical relaunch next year potentially become the 7th or 8th highest grossing foreign language film besting Jet Li's Fearless from 2006 which made $24.6M or Miramax's 1995 Il Postino ($21.8M). Also in Parasite's mow down is 1993's Like Water for Chocolate in 9th place with $21.6M.
In total, Parasite has grossed $134.56M global from 39 territories with 21 offshore markets yet to release including the UK, Scandinavia, Mexico. CJ handled worldwide distribution and the pic became Joon Ho's highest grossing movie in his native South Korea over the summer with close to $73.4M; the pic's highest territory followed by the U.S. with France counting $12.1M.
 
More from Deadline
Chicago Film Critics Give Best Picture To 'Parasite' And Best Director To Bong Joon Ho           Notes On The Season: State Of The Race; Jennifer Lopez Soars Into Contention; Terry Gilliam Tilts At Oscar's Windmill           Oscars: Examining The Expanded International Feature Film Shortlist Possibilities
 Load-Date: December 15, 2019

 

End of Document


Joker leads Oscars 2020 pack - but Academy just trumps Baftas for diversity; Joker nominated for 11 awards1917, The Irishman, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood up for 10Little Women and Parasite take six nominationsCynthia Erivo sole non-white acting nomineeOscar nominations: full list for 2020
The Guardian(London)
January 13, 2020 Monday 1:56 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM; Version:9
Length: 1231 words
Byline: Catherine Shoard
Body




Less than a week since Bafta's strikingly white and male awards shortlist met with widespread criticism - including from the organisation's own chief executive - the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has released a set of nominations whose small concessions to diversity seem striking by contrast.
Cynthia Erivo is nominated for best actress for her role in a biopic of abolitionist Harriet Tubman, and Parasite - Bong Joon-ho's acclaimed South Korean black comedy - is up for six awards, including best director and best picture.
Little Women, Greta Gerwig's so-far-overlooked take on the Louisa May Alcott classic, also scored six nominations, including best picture and best adapted screenplay - but Gerwig was locked out of the all-male best director shortlist.
Such moves are likely to be just about sufficient to insulate the Academy from the worst of the anger that greeted Bafta's equivalent announcement last Tuesday, where its members snubbed all non-white acting nominees, as well as homegrown talent such as Rapman and Joanna Hogg, and credited Joker - Todd Phillips's Batman origins story - with the most nods.
However, many commentators expressed distaste at many of Monday's omissions - in particular the lack of recognition in the best actress category for Lupita Nyong'o, star of Jordan Peele's horror movie, Us and for Awkwafina, the lead in The Farewell. The complete exclusion of Lulu Wang's much-admired female-centric Chinese-American drama does little to boost the Academy's inclusivity credentials.
"In the past, the pushback against #OscarsSoWhite was, 'There just weren't enough performances to nominate,'" said April Reign, the activist who created the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag in 2015.
"Well, that's not the case this year. There was a wealth of talent - and not just of black performers but of various marginalised communities - that was overlooked. And it's really unfortunate."
Joker is also the nominee to beat at the Oscars this year, where it likewise goes into the race with 11 nominations, including best picture, best director and best actor for            Joaquin Phoenix.
It is only the second comic-book movie to land a best picture nomination, following Black Panther in 2018. Nine years before, Christopher Nolan's Gotham-set The Dark Knight was snubbed for best picture - a move that many felt damagingly highlighted the divergent tastes of Oscar voters and paying audiences.
Some saw Joker's position on the top of the pile as further evidence of an endemic misogyny in the film industry, however. Said Melissa Silverstein, the founder of Women and Hollywood: "You don't have to look further that the movies nominated for the most Oscars this year to realize how white boy centric Hollywood is. A war movie, a mob movie and movie about an incel. Why we continue to glorify these stories over and over again is the crux of the problem."
Coming in with 10 nominations are Sam Mendes's first world war thriller 1917, Quentin Tarantino's love letter to 60s LA,            Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, and Martin Scorsese's wintry mob epic,            The Irishman.
Netflix, the studio responsible for that film, came away with 24 nominations from Monday's announcement: leading the pack for the first time, but still fewer than anticipated, because of the complete lack of nods for Dolemite Is My Name and slightly underwhelming totals for Marriage Story and            The Two Popes.
Disney picked up 23 nominations, while Sony - whose slate last year included Once Upon a Time in Hollywood - took 20.
Marriage Story, Noah Baumbach's divorce drama, ended up with six nominations, including for stars Adam Driver and            Scarlett Johansson. Johansson's role in            Jojo Rabbit means she will also be in the running in the best supporting actress race this year - although            Laura Dern 's turn as her cynical lawyer in Marriage Story makes her the favourite.
Little Women's Florence Pugh, Richard Jewell's Kathy Bates and            Margot Robbie (for            Bombshell, costing Once Upon a Time in Hollywood a key nod) round out the category - leaving Jennifer Lopez unrecognised for her pole-dancing turn in Hustlers.
Meanwhile, The Irishman's Joe Pesci and Al Pacino, plus            Tom Hanks,            Anthony Hopkins and            Brad Pitt, whose part in Tarantino's film has earned him some career-best notices, compete for supporting actor.
Phoenix is the man to beat for leading actor, having taken the lion's share of awards so far for his transformative performance in Joker. He is up against Driver, Leonardo DiCaprio,            Jonathan Pryce (for The Two Popes) and Pain and Glory's            Antonio Banderas.
Eddie Murphy and Adam Sandler failed to capitalise on prodigious buzz for Dolemite Is My Name and Uncut Gems, respectively - and Robert De Niro's leading role in The Irishman again failed to win over first-round voters. Taron Egerton's Golden Globe win on Sunday for his Elton John in Rocketman did not in the end convert to an Oscar nomination.
Another apparent lock-in leads the best actress nominations: Renée Zellweger, whose turn as Judy Garland in last year's biopic has won over critics and voters in other awards bodies alike. Competing against her, Johansson and Erivo are Little Women's            Saoirse Ronan and Bombshell's            Charlize Theron.
Last year's Oscars won much praise for handing out four trophies - including best director - to Alfonso Cuaron's Spanish-language, black-and-white story of a domestic servant, Roma; praise tempered by the eventual victory of reductive interracial road movie Green Book for best picture.
This year, second-round voters have the chance to repeat the trick by honouring a foreign-language film in categories other than best international film: Parasite - which tells of an impoverished family infiltrating the lives of a wealthy household - is also up for best film, best director, best original screenplay, best editing and best production design.
The Baftas announcement last week led to such a backlash that the awards body promised a major review of its voting procedures. Speaking to the Guardian, Steve McQueen - a Bafta and Oscar winner for 12 Years a Slave - said the organisation risked cultural redundancy without urgent change.
Both the Baftas and Oscars have undertaken membership shakeups over the past five years in a bid to better reflect the diversity of both films and the wider world.
In 2017, a Bafta survey found that its members were 43% female, 18% minority ethnic and had a median age of 44; further intakes would likely have raised those figures further. Last year's ceremony was the first since a new set of eligibility rules, designed to increase inclusion, were introduced for two key awards.
In 2016, the Oscars announced an intention to double their number of female and minority voters by 2020; a goal that appears to have been achieved by enormous drafts of fresh members, including            842 new faces in 2019 - and, more controversially, taking voting privileges away from "dormant" members.
The nominations in 24 categories were read out by John Cho and Issa Rae in Hollywood, ahead of the ceremony on 9 February. For the second year running, there will be no host, after last year's impromptu decision not to replace Kevin Hart led to an 11% boost in the telecast's ratings - the first rise since 2014.
 Load-Date: January 16, 2020

 

End of Document


'Parasite', South Korean comedy about class rage, wins Cannes gold
Agence France Presse -- English
May 25, 2019 Saturday 9:48 PM GMT

 Copyright 2019 Agence France Presse All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 816 words
Dateline: Cannes, France, May 25 2019
Body




"Parasite", a black comedy about a family of clever scammers from South Korea's underclass, won the Palme d'Or top prize at Cannes on Saturday, the first time a Korean director has scooped the coveted award in the film festival's 72-year history.
Bong Joon-ho, 49, best known for daring arthouse hits including "Okja" and "Snowpiercer", won for a satire which critics said powerfully tapped into the tensions caused by the widening gap between rich and poor around the world.
Accepting the prize from French movie legend Catherine Deneuve, Bong said winning at Cannes had been a lifelong dream.
"I was a little boy who was crazy about cinema since I was 12 years old," Bong said, hoisting the palm-frond statuette in the air.
"Parasite" is the second Asian film in a row to triumph at the world's biggest film festival. 
It tapped into similar themes explored by last year's winner, "Shoplifters" by Hirokazu Kore-eda about a family of small-time crooks, which shone a light on Japan's hidden poor.
Despite some of his strongest reviews in years, Quentin Tarantino failed to win anything for "Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood", which brought together two of Tinseltown's most dashing leading men, Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio, for the first time.
The first black woman to compete for Cannes' top prize, Mati Diop, was runner-up for "Atlantics", a chilling ghost story about Senegalese migrants dying at sea.
Antonio Banderas got the best actor award for Pedro Almodovar's "Pain and Glory", a loosely autobiographical picture based on the director's colourful life.
An emotional Banderas said it was the first major prize of his 40-year career. 
"I respect him, I admire him, I love him, he's my mentor and he's given me so much," he said of Almodovar, who cast the actor in eight films and helped make him a global box office draw.
"This award has to be dedicated to him," he added.
- 'Dark and difficult times' -
Belgium's Dardenne brothers, two-time winners of the Palme d'Or, clinched the best director gong for "Young Ahmed" about a teenage boy who falls under the influence of an Islamist hate preacher.
Jean-Pierre Dardenne said the movie offered an ultimately optimistic vision "in these dark and difficult times with identitarian populism on the rise".
Britain's Emily Beecham won best actress for "Little Joe", a feminist sci-fi thriller by Austrian director Jessica Hausner about the mysterious powers of a bio-engineered plant.
The third-place jury prize was shared by the gritty French police drama "Les Miserables" and Brazil's "Nighthawk", a darkly satirical Western seen as a searing indictment of life under the country's far-right President Jair Bolsonaro.
Best screenplay went to France's Celine Sciamma, one of four women in competition, for "Portrait of a Woman on Fire", a lushly subversive lesbian love story set in the 18th century. 
- 'Worries, nightmares'  -
Many critics loved Tarantino's rollicking odyssey through the Los Angeles of 1969 in the period leading up to the Manson family murders, particularly Pitt's performance as a hoary stuntman.
However the director -- who won the Palme d'Or 25 years ago for "Pulp Fiction" -- collected the Palm Dog prize Friday for Cannes' best canine performance, joking, "At least I do not go home empty-handed". 
The Camera d'Or for best first feature film went to Guatemala's Cesar Diaz for "Our Mothers", a drama about those "disappeared" during the country's brutal civil war.
The jury gave a special mention to Palestinian film-maker Elia Suleiman's "It Must Be Heaven" about the experiences of an exile who goes on a meandering odyssey from his hometown of Nazareth to the streets of Paris and New York.
This year's jury president, Oscar-winning Mexican director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu of "Birdman" and "The Revenant" fame, said they selected films among the 21 contenders that tapped into the zeitgeist of a fraught era.
"These artists are visionaries who are... expressing those worries and frustrations, those nightmares," he said.
"Cinema now has the urgency of social consciousness expressed by people around the world."
- 'Devastating electric shock' -
"Parasite" tells the story of a young man living in a squalid apartment with his family who is struggling in Seoul's gig economy.
Without formal qualifications, he charms his way into a job with a wealthy family, tutoring their precocious daughter in English.
Soon the tutor's parents and sister also manage to insinuate themselves into the household of the blithely privileged clan living in a luxury home high above the flood plain.
Variety critic Jessica Kiang called the film "roaringly furious".
"'Parasite' is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class rage," she said.
US movie website Indiewire called it a "brilliant and devastating electric shock of economic anxiety" and a "compassionate parable about how society can only be as strong as its most vulnerable people."
bur-dlc/fg/har
 Load-Date: May 26, 2019

 

End of Document


Streaming: the best home invasion films; The Oscar-winning Parasite, streaming from Monday, is among the most ingenious of home invasion movies. But this age-old genre seldom fails to surprise...
The Observer (London)
May 30, 2020 Saturday 8:00 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Guardian Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM; Version:1
Length: 983 words
Byline: Guy Lodge
Body




Not many good things have happened so far in 2020, but Parasite ruling the Oscars in February ranks high among them. It took 92 years for the Academy to finally anoint a non-English-language film as the year's best, and you couldn't ask for a more electrifying movie to claim the milestone than Bong Joon-ho's cool, crisp, genre-bending class-war thriller.
By the time cinemas shut down in March, Parasite had become the highest-grossing non-English-language film in UK box office history. If you missed it, its home entertainment release on Monday (on all major streaming platforms, as well as DVD and Blu-ray) should come as a particular treat. The film's intricate narrative reversals are best experienced with as little forewarning as possible, but it's no spoiler to say that it ranks among cinema's most ingenious revisions of an age-old genre: the home invasion movie. The premise of an impoverished working-class family posing as servants to cannily infiltrate an elegantly moneyed household is classical. Yet the social dynamics of the setup are subversive from the beginning, as Bong and his superb cast muddy and muddle our sympathies - the poorer family may technically be the invaders here, but who are the victims?Parasite joins Jordan Peele's ingenious, incendiary            Us (streaming on Now TV), a deconstruction of black double consciousness played for visceral chills, in challenging the conventional politics of the home invasion movie - which traditionally sides with rich, respectable folks in peril. In the golden age of Hollywood, the home invasion thriller usefully allowed studios to cut back on sets and production costs, zeroing in instead on their most gifted damsels in distress: see            Sorry, Wrong Number (Google Play) from 1948, an enjoyably schlocky little exploitation film in which Barbara Stanwyck's sickly heiress clocks that she's the target of a murder plot but can hardly leave her boudoir to do much about it.
You can see how its brand of claustrophobia filtered into William Wyler's more hard-boiled The Desperate Hours (YouTube), in which Humphrey Bogart leads a trio of convicts holding a nice suburban family hostage while they await their escape money, or            Wait Until Dark(Chili), in which Alan Arkin's violent thug storms the apartment of lovely, poor, blind, inadvertently drug-harbouring Audrey Hepburn - a static but nervy "he's behind you" setup that holds up rather well, thanks to Hepburn's expert angst.
These days, of course, home invasion plots are a staple of grislier exercises in terror. 2008's The Strangers (Google Play) remains underrated in its simple, tightly cranked preying on middle-class fears and privileges, like a more multiplex-friendly answer to the cold-blooded cat-and-mouse games Michael Haneke played with a family on holiday in            Funny Games (Amazon Prime) - the Austrian original, that is, not his own oddly pointless US remake. The 2006 French film            Them (available on Shudder) splits the difference between well-oiled genre mechanics and unorthodox arthouse cruelty. Following a family plagued by oddly diminutive forces at their country getaway, it's short, sharp and nakedly petrifying.
Sometimes more supernatural forces are at play: with its signature warning of "they're heeeere", the still crackling Poltergeist (Amazon) made a generation of children wonder what apparitions may be lurking in the living room TV set. Alejandro Amenábar's modern haunted house classic            The Others (iTunes), meanwhile, inverted its victim perspective with a twist so clean and brilliant that it's ominously being lined up for a remake. And who can even say what or who the invaders are in Darren Aronofsky's divisive but enthralling            Mother! (Amazon), a fevered psychotic breakdown of a film in which strangers leaning on her unbraced kitchen sink is the very least of young home renovator Jennifer Lawrence's problems.
Not all home invasion movies have to be traumatising, however: the genre can accommodate unexpectedly tender love stories, as in Robin Campillo's excellent, unpredictable Eastern Boys (Amazon), in which a middle-aged gay man's attempt to anonymously hook up with a beautiful youth at his flat has both destructive and heart-bursting consequences. There's even such a thing as a home invasion romcom in the form of the irresistibly fizzy, silly            Housesitter (Amazon), in which Goldie Hawn's enterprising waitress pluckily colonises the unoccupied dream house of lovelorn architect Steve Martin. She's plainly a sociopath, but why should that impede true love? There isn't much to connect this fluff to Bong Joon-ho's gilded masterwork, save for its conviction that not every home invader is the bad guy.
                                            Also new on DVD and streaming                                        
                     Cats                     (Universal, U) If the baying reviews got you curious but you just couldn't face the uncanny onslaught of digital fur technology in the cinema, here it is for your home viewing displeasure. Tom Hooper's hyper-kitsch Lloyd Webber adaptation is this generation's Xanadu: a singularly monstrous folly sure to draw cultish fascination.
                     Onward                     (Disney, U) Finally on DVD for families who have resisted the lure of Disney+, Pixar's latest has a jovial, innocuous tone that should make for tolerable repeat viewing through the summer holiday lockdown. It's slight stuff, though, notwithstanding the sweetness of its family values.
                     Run                     (Verve Pictures, 15) Scottish indie director Scott Graham doesn't match the moody heights of his debut, Shell, in this Springsteen-spirited ode to dead-end towns and deadbeat dreams, but a fine Mark Stanley gives it some juice as a former boy racer turned frustrated family man.
 Load-Date: May 30, 2020

 

End of Document


Cannes 2019: Palme d'Or Winner 'Parasite' Defined a Year of Movies About Class Warfare
indieWIRE
May 26, 2019 Sunday 3:06 AM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 968 words
Byline: Eric Kohn
Body




May 26, 2019( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  Bong Joon-ho's Palme d'Or winner 'Parasite[1]' revolves around a family that overtakes a wealthy residence, bit by bit, but the best sequence finds them trapped. When an unexpected development (no spoilers here) puts their scheme at risk, they're forced to hide in various corridors of the expansive house, under floorboards and in the walls. It's a startling visual embodiment of the class warfare at the heart of the movie — and in much of Bong's work, from 'Barking Dogs Never Bite' to 'Snowpiercer' — wherein less fortunate people attempt to take control of the conditions holding them down, and wind up stuck somewhere in the middle. 
Bong's directorial talents were long overdue for this prize: His slick ability to compose rich visuals in every frame, with complex characters almost too driven for their own good, has made him one of the greatest working filmmakers for years now. But 'Parasite' was also an ideal choice for the top prize at this year's Cannes[2] in a year when many of the best movies in Competition dealt with the same potent theme. Consider 'Atlantics.' Mati Diop's surreal Grand Prix winner follows a group of women in Dakar abandoned by several young men who flee to the ocean in a quest to reach the coast of Spain. Ada (Mama San) is left to contend with a forced marriage to Omar (Barbara Sylla), a wealthy man whom her family hopes will support them. Ada feels trapped: On the one hand, she resents her lover abandoning her in a dreary, impoverished life; at the same time, she's expected to suppress her emotions for the sake of her family's stability. As 'Atlantics' heads in an eerie, supernatural direction, and the ghosts of men who departed for the sea come back to haunt Ada's small community, the movie creates the impression of a world defined by the haves and have-nots. Only through a profound, otherworldly set of circumstances can Ava even begin to contemplate the idea of an escape, but never once does it seem realistic. So it goes in 'Les Miserables' and 'Bacurau,' the movies that shared this year's Jury Prize. In Ladj Ly's 'Les Miserables,' thick-skulled police officers persecute a Muslim community in Paris for no reason other than their ongoing desire to confirm their superiority. Their mounting acts of aggression toward one rebellious Muslim youth lead to a dynamic showdown in an apartment complex when the entire neighborhood acts out in revolt. That ending is mirrored rather closely in 'Bacurau,' Kleber Mendonca Filho and Juliano Dornelles' futuristic Brazilian Western, when a remote town bands together to fight back against mysterious vigilantes. Their purpose hovers in an ambiguous state for much of the story, but they take on a profound symbolic quality as the movie builds to its bloody finale, as a self-sustaining world defined by its self-sustaining ethos suddenly must fight to sustain its existence. The stakes take on more personal ramifications in 'Portrait of a Lady on Fire,' Celine Sciamma's screenplay winner, which finds a wealthy young woman named Heloise (Adele Hanele) falling for lower-class painter Marianne (Nomie Merlant) in the 18th century. Their bond is powerful, intimate, and essentially impossible: While the movie doesn't waste time exploring the taboos associated with same-sex attraction at the time, remaining close to its main characters' developing bond, it magnifies just how much Heloise has been trapped by her palatial circumstances. As with Ada in 'Atlantics,' Heloise is expected to marry a man who can support her and keep her comfortable, but that assumption doesn't take into account what she actually wants for herself. Her love affair is a quiet act of rebellion against the system holding her in place. While the fixation of these Cannes entries suggests a mounting discontent with wealth and persecution around the world, Ken Loach got there first. The British auteur has been the ultimate chronicler of underclass frustrations for over half a century, and his Competition entry 'Sorry We Missed You' is a vintage example. Tackling the gig economy head-on, Loach focuses on desperate family man Ricky (Kris Hitchen) as he takes on a contract gig driving a delivery van around London, signing away his rights in the process. Loach excels at showing how vast industrial systems exploit the working man, and Ricky's innocuous descent into a machine keen on eating him alive is tragic to watch, mostly because it feels so real. Nevertheless, the narrative of this year's Cannes goes back to the beginning. Jim Jarmusch's 'The Dead Don't Die' opened the festival to lukewarm reviews, but the master of deadpan's dark zombie comedy is nothing if not a pointed critique of an exploitative system. The undead in Jarmusch's kooky ensemble are drawn to products that they obsessed over in their lives — wifi, Xanax, coffee, you name it — and it doesn't take much to see just how much contempt Jarmusch has for the way we've all become materialistic slaves. It's a blunt metaphor, explained in bitter terms in Tom Waits' apocalyptic voiceover, but in retrospect it set the stage for the festival's many depictions of global outrage against capitalist persecution. Wealth attracts and it takes away; in the process, it catalyzes dramatic narratives that must be told. Even bad movies can be portals to the fears, anxieties, and frustrations of the times in which they're made; the 2019 Cannes Film Festival brought us some great ones. Launch Gallery: 2019 Cannes Film Festival Red Carpet: Taron Egerton, Richard Madden, and More (Photos)[3] [ 1]: https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/cannes/ [ 3]:            https://www.indiewire.com/gallery/2019-cannes-film-festival-red-carpet-best-photos/ 
 Load-Date: May 26, 2019

 

End of Document


Peter Howell: 'Parasite' just might win Best Picture at Oscars, thanks to momentum and the class nerve it struck
thestar.com
February 6, 2020 Thursday

 Copyright 2020 Free Daily News Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 0
Length: 324 words
Byline: Peter Howell
Body




This week we're handicapping the prospects of the nine Best Picture contenders at the Academy Awards on Feb. 9. Today: "Parasite."
Quick pitch: Poor but wily, members of the Kim family eke out an existence in their modern South Korean metropolis. On the other side of the tracks are the Parks, a family rich in money but lacking in empathy. The Kims and Parks are separated by fortune, but fate - and subterfuge - will bring them together.
Starring: Song Kang-ho, Choi Woo-shik, Lee Sun-kyun, Park So-dam, Cho Yeo-jeong, Lee Jung-eun, Chang Hyae-jin, Jung Ziso, Jung Hyeon-jun.
Written by: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won.
Directed by: Bong Joon-ho.
Nominations: 6
Key early kudos: Toronto Film Critics' Association Best Picture, Director and Foreign Language Film; SAG Best Ensemble Acting.
Box office (domestic, U.S. dollars): $33.2 million.
Ladbrokes odds: 7/2
William Hill odds: 11/4
Ranking in Gurus o' Gold critics poll at MovieCityNews.com: Second place, as of Feb. 4.
Why it could win: It has truly struck a nerve this Oscar season, transcending language and tradition with its universal tale of class struggle. Many signs point to a historic victory by the little South Korean movie that could.
Why it might not: Oscar has historically resisted giving Best Picture to foreign-language films, as "Roma" found out last year.
Howell's line: All eyes on the prize as this Cannes monster makes its move on Oscar's domain.
Full review: 'Parasite' is a savage, surprising class satire that pricks the conscience
Previously:
'The Irishman' is a Scorsese masterpiece, but it won't master the Oscars
Why 'Jojo Rabbit' is the people's choice, but it probably won't be Oscar's
Could push-back against men at Oscars pull up 'Little Women'?
Have Oscar voters fallen out of love with 'Marriage Story'?
Older male Oscars voters might propel 'Ford v Ferrari' in Best Picture race
Peter Howell is the Star's movie critic based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @peterhowellfilm
 Load-Date: February 8, 2020

 

End of Document


Peter Howell: 'Parasite' just might win Best Picture at Oscars, thanks to momentum and the class nerve it struck
thestar.com
February 6, 2020 Thursday

 Copyright 2020 Free Daily News Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 0
Length: 324 words
Byline: Peter Howell
Body




This week we're handicapping the prospects of the nine Best Picture contenders at the Academy Awards on Feb. 9. Today: "Parasite."
Quick pitch: Poor but wily, members of the Kim family eke out an existence in their modern South Korean metropolis. On the other side of the tracks are the Parks, a family rich in money but lacking in empathy. The Kims and Parks are separated by fortune, but fate - and subterfuge - will bring them together.
Starring: Song Kang-ho, Choi Woo-shik, Lee Sun-kyun, Park So-dam, Cho Yeo-jeong, Lee Jung-eun, Chang Hyae-jin, Jung Ziso, Jung Hyeon-jun.
Written by: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won.
Directed by: Bong Joon-ho.
Nominations: 6
Key early kudos: Toronto Film Critics' Association Best Picture, Director and Foreign Language Film; SAG Best Ensemble Acting.
Box office (domestic, U.S. dollars): $33.2 million.
Ladbrokes odds: 7/2
William Hill odds: 11/4
Ranking in Gurus o' Gold critics poll at MovieCityNews.com: Second place, as of Feb. 4.
Why it could win: It has truly struck a nerve this Oscar season, transcending language and tradition with its universal tale of class struggle. Many signs point to a historic victory by the little South Korean movie that could.
Why it might not: Oscar has historically resisted giving Best Picture to foreign-language films, as "Roma" found out last year.
Howell's line: All eyes on the prize as this Cannes monster makes its move on Oscar's domain.
Full review: 'Parasite' is a savage, surprising class satire that pricks the conscience
Previously:
'The Irishman' is a Scorsese masterpiece, but it won't master the Oscars
Why 'Jojo Rabbit' is the people's choice, but it probably won't be Oscar's
Could push-back against men at Oscars pull up 'Little Women'?
Have Oscar voters fallen out of love with 'Marriage Story'?
Older male Oscars voters might propel 'Ford v Ferrari' in Best Picture race
Peter Howell is the Star's movie critic based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @peterhowellfilm
 Load-Date: February 8, 2020

 

End of Document


Peter Howell: 'Parasite' just might win Best Picture at Oscars, thanks to momentum and the class nerve it struck
thestar.com
February 6, 2020 Thursday

 Copyright 2020 Free Daily News Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 0
Length: 324 words
Byline: Peter Howell
Body




This week we're handicapping the prospects of the nine Best Picture contenders at the Academy Awards on Feb. 9. Today: "Parasite."
Quick pitch: Poor but wily, members of the Kim family eke out an existence in their modern South Korean metropolis. On the other side of the tracks are the Parks, a family rich in money but lacking in empathy. The Kims and Parks are separated by fortune, but fate - and subterfuge - will bring them together.
Starring: Song Kang-ho, Choi Woo-shik, Lee Sun-kyun, Park So-dam, Cho Yeo-jeong, Lee Jung-eun, Chang Hyae-jin, Jung Ziso, Jung Hyeon-jun.
Written by: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won.
Directed by: Bong Joon-ho.
Nominations: 6
Key early kudos: Toronto Film Critics' Association Best Picture, Director and Foreign Language Film; SAG Best Ensemble Acting.
Box office (domestic, U.S. dollars): $33.2 million.
Ladbrokes odds: 7/2
William Hill odds: 11/4
Ranking in Gurus o' Gold critics poll at MovieCityNews.com: Second place, as of Feb. 4.
Why it could win: It has truly struck a nerve this Oscar season, transcending language and tradition with its universal tale of class struggle. Many signs point to a historic victory by the little South Korean movie that could.
Why it might not: Oscar has historically resisted giving Best Picture to foreign-language films, as "Roma" found out last year.
Howell's line: All eyes on the prize as this Cannes monster makes its move on Oscar's domain.
Full review: 'Parasite' is a savage, surprising class satire that pricks the conscience
Previously:
'The Irishman' is a Scorsese masterpiece, but it won't master the Oscars
Why 'Jojo Rabbit' is the people's choice, but it probably won't be Oscar's
Could push-back against men at Oscars pull up 'Little Women'?
Have Oscar voters fallen out of love with 'Marriage Story'?
Older male Oscars voters might propel 'Ford v Ferrari' in Best Picture race
Peter Howell is the Star's movie critic based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @peterhowellfilm
 Load-Date: February 8, 2020

 

End of Document


SOUTH KOREAN FILM PARASITE MAKES HISTORY AT OSCARS IN UPSET FOR 1917
Herald Scotland
February 11, 2020 Tuesday

 Copyright 2020 NewsQuest Media Group Limited All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 755 words
Byline: Rohese Devereux Taylor
Body




South Korean film Parasite has become the first non-English-language movie to win the best picture Oscar, in a significant upset for British war film 1917.
The class satire by auteur Bong Joon-ho also won best director, best original screenplay and best international feature, leaving Sir Sam Mendes empty-handed.
It was widely thought that the British filmmaker would win his second directing Oscar for the First World War epic, filmed to appear as one long take.
It would have come exactly 20 years after his win for American Beauty but he was pipped to the post for the Academy Award by director Bong, despite success at both the Baftas and the Golden Globes.
The South Korean filmmaker appeared stunned to win the directing prize, saying: "After winning best international feature, I thought I was done for the day and ready to relax."
He quoted Martin Scorsese, saying: "When I was young and studying cinema, there was a saying that I carved deep into my heart, 'What is the most personal is the most creative'," and asked the audience to stand in honour of the veteran director.
He added: "I will drink until next morning."
READ MORE: Krysty Wilson-Cairns collects best British film Bafta for war epic 1917
1917 did enjoy success in the cinematography category, where Roger Deakins won his second Oscar in three years.
It was also celebrated for sound mixing and visual effects.
British hopefuls were shut out of the acting categories, with success for Joaquin Phoenix, Renee Zellweger, Laura Dern and Brad Pitt, but Sir Elton John did triumph in the original song category.
He won alongside his long-time collaborator Bernie Taupin for their track (I'm Gonna) Love Me Again for biopic Rocketman.
Pitt won his first acting Oscar for his supporting role in Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood and took a swipe at the Senate and thanked his children.
He previously won a best picture Oscar as the producer of 12 Years A Slave but this is his first acting prize.
As he was handed his prize by Regina King, he criticised Senate Republicans for refusing to allow former national security adviser John Bolton to testify in US president Donald Trump's impeachment trial.
He said: "They tell me I have only got 45 seconds, that is 45 seconds more than the Senate gave John Bolton this week.
"I'm thinking maybe Quentin does a movie about it and in the end the adults do the right thing."
Dern got an early birthday present as she won the best supporting actress Oscar for her role in Marriage Story.
She will turn 53 at midnight in Los Angeles.
Her mother, the actress Diane Ladd, wiped away tears as she watched her daughter collect her prize.
Dern said: "Some say never meet your heroes but I say, if you're really blessed, you get them as your parents.
"I share this with my acting legends, Diane Ladd and Bruce Dern. You got game, I love you."
Ladd was nominated for the best supporting actress prize three times but never won.
Dern added: "Thank you all for this gift, this is the best birthday present ever."
READ MORE: Alison Rowat's Parasite review
Phoenix won the leading actor prize for Joker and used his impassioned speech to talk about equality rights.
He said: "I think at times we feel or are made to feel that we champion different causes. But for me, I see commonality. I think, whether we're talking about gender inequality or racism or queer rights or indigenous rights or animal rights, we're talking about the fight against injustice."
Phoenix became tearful at the end of the speech as he remembered his late brother, the actor River Phoenix, who died aged 23 in 1993.
He said: "When he was 17, my brother wrote this lyric, 'Run to the rescue with love and peace will follow'."
Zellweger paid tribute to Judy Garland as she was named best actress for her role as the Wizard Of Oz star in Judy.
She said: "And though Judy Garland did not receive this honour in her time, I am certain that this moment is an extension of the celebration of her legacy that began on our film set and is also representative of the fact that her legacy of unique exceptionalism and inclusivity and generosity of spirit.
"Miss Garland, you are certainly among the heroes who unite and define us and this is certainly for you. I'm so grateful."
The Oscars ceremony, which did not have a host for the second year in a row, featured a surprise appearance from Eminem.
The rapper performed his Oscar-winning song Lose Yourself, 17 years after he snubbed the ceremony.
There was also a performance by Billie Eilish, who sang The Beatles' Yesterday during the In Memoriam segment.
 Load-Date: February 11, 2020

 

End of Document


Waves, The Irishman, Marriage Story, Parasite All Heading to Middleburg Film Festival
Newstex Blogs 
Awards Daily
October 1, 2019 Tuesday 9:26 PM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2594 words
Byline: Jazz Tangcay
Body




Oct 01, 2019( Awards Daily: http://www.awardsdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  The Middleburg Film Festival announced today the 34 films making up the full slate for the 2019 edition of the Festival. MFF, now in its seventh year, opens Thursday, October 17 with Academy Award-nominated filmmaker Noah Baumbach's MARRIAGE STORY, starring Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson. As previously announced, Baumbach will be honored with the Spotlight Director Award following a screening of his opening night film. I will be in attendance, and check out the schedule because Clayton Davis of Awards Circuit, Nathaniel Rogers of The Film Experience and I will be hosting our very first Coffee and Contenders Coffee Morning in the Salamander Library on Friday morning at 8.45am. 
If you want to learn about the current state of the Oscar race and how the festival is a stop for Oscar contenders, you won't want to miss it.Check out the Middleburg Film Festival 2019 Full Slate below: Opening Night MARRIAGE STORY Director: Noah Baumbach Country: USA Genre: Narrative Starring Scarlett Johansson and Adam Driver, MARRIAGE STORY is an incisive and compassionate look at a marriage breaking up and a family staying together. The ensemble cast also includes Laura Dern, Alan Alda, Ray Liotta, Julie Hagerty and Merritt Weaver. Centerpiece Film FORD v FERRARI Director: James Mangold Country: USA Genre: Narrative Directed by James Mangold, the film is inspired by the remarkable true story of the visionary American car designer Carroll Shelby (Matt Damon) and the fearless British driver Ken Miles (Christian Bale), who together battled corporate interference, the laws of physics, and their own personal demons to build a revolutionary race car for Ford Motor Company and take on the dominating race cars of Enzo Ferrari at the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in 1966. Friday Spotlights HARRIET Director: Kasi Lemmons Country: USA Genre: Narrative Based on the inspirational life of an iconic American freedom fighter, HARRIET tells the extraordinary tale of Harriet Tubman's escape from slavery and subsequent missions to free dozens of slaves through the Underground Railroad. Tony Award winning actress Cynthia Erivo stars in the title role alongside Leslie Odom Jr., Janelle Monae, Joe Alwyn, Jennifer Nettles and Clarke Peters. WAVES Director: Trey Edward Shults Country: USA Genre: Narrative WAVES traces the epic emotional journey of a suburban African-American family - led by a well-intentioned, domineering father - as they navigate life love, forgiveness, and coming together in the aftermath of a tragic loss. The film stars Sterling K. Brown, Renee Elise Goldsberry, Kelvin Harrison Jr., Taylor Russell and Lucas Hedges. Closing Night Film THE IRISHMAN Director: Martin Scorsese Country: USA Genre: Narrative Starring Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and Joe Pesci, THE IRISHMAN is an epic saga of organized crime in post-war America told through the eyes of WWII veteran Frank Sheeran, a hustler and hitman who worked alongside some of the most notorious figures of the 20th century. Spanning decades, the film chronicles one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in American history, the disappearance of legendary union boss Jimmy Hoffa, and offers a monumental journey through the hidden corridors of organized crime. Main Slate THE AERONAUTS Director: Tom Harper Country: UK Genre: Narrative In 1862, daredevil balloon pilot Amelia Wren (Felicity Jones) teams up with pioneering meteorologist James Glaisher (Eddie Redmayne) to advance human knowledge of the weather and fly higher than anyone in history. While breaking records and furthering scientific discovery, their voyage to the very edge of existence helps the unlikely pair find their place in the world. But they face physical and emotional challenges in the thin air, as the ascent becomes a fight for survival. ATLANTICS Director: Mati Diop Country: France/Senegal/Belgium Genre: Foreign Language Narrative Along the Atlantic coast, in a suburb of Dakar, Senegal, construction workers have not been paid for months. They take to the dangerous seas in search of work in Spain. Among them is Souleiman, the lover of Ada, who is soon to be married to another man. A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD Director: Marielle Heller Country: USA Genre: Narrative Tom Hanks portrays Mister Rogers in A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, a timely story of kindness triumphing over cynicism, based on the true story of a real-life friendship between Fred Rogers and journalist Tom Junod. After a jaded magazine writer (Emmy winner Matthew Rhys) is assigned a profile of Fred Rogers, he overcomes his skepticism, learning about kindness, love and forgiveness from America's most beloved neighbor. BLOW THE MAN DOWN Directors: Danielle Krudy, Bridget Savage Cole Country: USA Genre: Narrative Though reeling after the death of their mother, the Connolly sisters suddenly find they have a murder to cover up, leading them deep into the underbelly of their salty Maine fishing village. THE CAPOTE TAPES Director: Ebs Burnough Country: UK Genre: Documentary Culled from a collection of never-before-heard interviews recorded for Paris Review cofounder George Plimpton's never-completed biography, THE CAPOTE TAPES provides a revelatory glimpse into Truman Capote's life and work. THE CAVE Director: Feras Fayyad Country: Syria/Denmark/Germany/USA/Qatar Genre: Documentary Following his Academy Award-nominated documentary LAST MEN IN ALEPPO, director Feras Fayyad returns to his native Syria, a country still ravaged by an unrelenting war. In THE CAVE, Fayyad follows a dedicated team of female doctors who tirelessly treat casualties in an underground hospital while battling systemic sexism as they risk their lives to provide medical care to the besieged population. CLEMENCY Director: Chinonye Chukwu Country: USA Genre: Narrative Years of carrying out death row executions have taken a toll on prison warden Bernadine Williams (Alfre Woodard) who finds herself questioning her position and the ethical consequences of her work. As she prepares to execute another inmate, Bernadine must confront the psychological and emotional demons her job creates, ultimately connecting her to Anthony Woods (Aldis Hodge), the man she is sanctioned to kill. COUP 53 Director: Taghi Amirani Country: UK/Iran/USA Genre: Documentary The story of the 1953 Anglo-American coup in Iran that overthrew the democratically elected Prime Minister Mossadegh and reinstalled the Shah. Featuring never before seen archival footage with firsthand witnesses. FRANKIE Director: Ira Sachs Country: France/Portugal Genre: Narrative FRANKIE follows three generations of a family who have gathered for a vacation organized by the family matriarch Frankie (Isabelle Huppert) in the fabled resort town of Sintra, Portugal. Unfolding over the course of a single day, they're unaware that this may be the family's final gathering. The ensemble cast includes Marisa Tomei, Brendan Gleeson and Greg Kinnear, A HIDDEN LIFE Director: Terence Malick Country: USA/Germany Genre: Narrative Based on real events, from visionary writer-director Terrence Malick, A HIDDEN LIFE is the story of an unsung hero, Franz Jgersttter, who refused to fight for the Nazis in World War II. When the Austrian peasant farmer is faced with the threat of execution for treason, it is his unwavering faith and his love for his wife Fani and children that keeps his spirit alive. THE HOY BOYS Presented by The Washington Post Press Freedom Partnership Director: David Simonds Country: USA Genre: Documentary Twin brothers Tom and Frank Hoy started in copyboy jobs in 1953 and later became White House news photographers for two major Washington DC newspapers - The Washington Post and The Evening Star. World Premiere HONEY BOY Director: Alma Har'el Country: USA Genre: Narrative Written by Shia LaBeouf, HONEY BOY traces the life of child actor Otis Lort as he rises from early sitcom success to a self-destructive Hollywood supernova. Based on LaBeouf's own life, HONEY BOY weaves together two timelines as Otis (played by Noah Jupe and Lucas Hedges) struggles to come to terms with his ex-rodeo clown father, played by LaBeouf in a role inspired by his own father. INVISIBLE LIFE Director: Karim Anouz Country: Brazil/Germany Genre: Narrative Foreign Language Winner of the top prize in the Un Certain Regard section at this year's Cannes Film Festival, INVISIBLE LIFE tells the story of two sisters born in Rio de Janeiro who make their way through life mistakenly believing the other is living out her dreams half a world away. JOJO RABBIT Director: Taika Waititi Country: USA Genre: Narrative Writer-director Taika Waititi (THOR: RAGNAROK, HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE), brings his signature style of humor and pathos to his latest film, JOJO RABBIT, a World War II satire that follows a lonely German boy (Roman Griffin Davis as JoJo) whose world view is turned upside down when he discovers his single mother (Scarlett Johansson) is hiding a young Jewish girl (Thomasin McKenzie) in their attic. Aided only by his idiotic imaginary friend, Adolf Hitler (Taika Waititi), Jojo must confront his blind nationalism. JUST MERCY Director: Destin Daniel Cretton Country: USA Genre: Narrative JUST MERCY is a powerful true story that follows young lawyer Bryan Stevenson (Michael B. Jordan) and his history-making battle for justice as he fights a merciless legal system stacked against him and his clients on death row. The film also stars Jamie Foxx, Rob Morgan, Tim Blake Nelson, Rafe Spall, O'Shea Jackson Jr., Karan Kendrick and Brie Larson. THE KING Director: David Michod Country: UK Genre: Narrative Wayward prince and reluctant heir to the English throne Hal (Timothe Chalamet) has turned his back on royal life and is living among the people, including his hard-drinking mentor, Sir John Falstaff (Joel Edgerton). But when his tyrannical father dies, Hal is crowned King Henry V and is forced to embrace the life he had previously tried to escape and navigate palace politics, chaos and war. KNIVES OUT Director: Rian Johnson Country: USA Genre: Narrative Writer/Director Rian Johnson pays tribute to Agatha Christie in KNIVES OUT, a fun, modern-day murder mystery where everyone is a suspect. When renowned crime novelist Harlan Thrombey (Christopher Plummer) is found dead at his estate just after his 85th birthday, Detective Benoit Blanc (Daniel Craig) is mysteriously enlisted to investigate. From Harlan's dysfunctional family to his devoted staff, Blanc sifts through a web of red herrings and self-serving lies to uncover the truth behind Harlan's untimely death. LES MISERABLES Director: Ladj Ly Country: France Genre: Foreign Language Narrative Starting his first day as a member of the Anti-Crime Squad in Montfermeil - the same Paris suburb that Victor Hugo set as the location for his eponymous novel - Stphane finds himself thrown into a community rife with tension and nearing a breaking point. When a surprise ambush breaks up an otherwise routine arrest, an act of spontaneous violence at the hands of one of Stphane's colleagues pushes them deep into the fractured realities of the neighborhood and immigrant communities they are meant to protect. MOTHERLESS BROOKLYN Director: Edward Norton Country: USA Genre: Narrative Set against the backdrop of 1950s New York, MOTHERLESS BROOKLYN follows Lionel Essrog (Edward Norton), a lonely private detective living with Tourette Syndrome, as he ventures to solve the murder of his mentor and only friend, Frank Minna (Bruce Willis). Armed only with a few clues and the engine of his obsessive mind, Lionel unravels closely-guarded secrets that hold the fate of the whole city in the balance. OLIVER SACKS: IN HIS OWN WORDS Director: Ric Burns Country: USA Genre: Documentary Learning he has just months to live, renowned writer and neurologist Oliver Sacks reflects on his life and work, dreams and fears, and his abiding sense of wonder at the natural world and the place of human beings within it. PARASITE Director: Bong Joon-ho Country: South Korea Genre: Foreign Language Narrative The struggling Kim family finds their world colliding with the wealthy Park family when a tutoring job presents itself and provides an opportunity to improve their standing. With a forged degree and a fake resume, their son secures the position and opens the door for the family to one-by-one scheme their way further into the home - only to soon realize that it may be more difficult to let go of their new lifestyles than they initially believed. PORTRAIT OF A LADY ON FIRE Director: Cline Sciamma Country: France Genre: Foreign Language Narrative Hired to paint a portrait ahead of a prospective marriage, an artist in 18th-century Brittany finds herself falling for the reclusive would-be bride. THE REPORT Director: Scott Z. Burns Country: USA Genre: Narrative Assigned to lead the Senate's investigation into the CIA's Detention and Interrogation Program, Daniel Jones (Adam Driver) spent more than half a decade attempting to uncover the truth of the country's use of 'enhanced interrogation techniques' post-9/11. Facing incredible resistance, Jones' work in collaboration with the Senate Intelligence Committee and Senator Dianne Feinstein (Annette Bening) would turn the tide on the public's understanding of the government's use of torture. THIS IS NOT A MOVIE Presented by The Washington Post Press Freedom Partnership Director: Yung Chang Country: Canada/Germany Genre: Documentary The groundbreaking and often game-changing reporting of legendary foreign correspondent and author Robert Fisk is profiled in the latest documentary feature from acclaimed filmmaker Yung Chang. US Premiere THE TRAITOR Director: Marco Bellocchio Country: Italy Genre: Foreign Language Narrative THE TRAITOR tells the true story of Tommaso Buscetta, the real-life mafia boss turned informer whose whistleblowing on his former colleagues led to the largest prosecution of the Sicilian Mafia in Italian history. THE TRUTH Director: Hirokazu Kore-eda Country: France/Japan Genre: Foreign Language Narrative Acclaimed director Hirokazu Kore-eda's first film made outside his native Japan stars Catherine Deneuve as a famous French actress whose relationship with her estranged screenwriter daughter (Juliette Binoche) is further tested when she publishes her memoir. THE TWO POPES Director: Fernando Meirelles Country: UK Genre: Narrative With tour-de-force performances from Jonathan Pryce and Anthony Hopkins in their portrayals of Pope Francis and Pope Benedict, THE TWO POPES tells the story of the ideologically opposed pontiffs who work to find common ground in forging a new path for the Catholic Church. VARDA BY AGNES Director: Agns Varda Country: France Genre: Documentary The latest film from the late French New Wave filmmaker Agns Varda sheds light on her legendary career and life with her characteristic humor and vibrant energy. Taking a seat on a theatre stage, she uses film excerpts to provide insights into her unorthodox oeuvre. WILLIE Director: Laurence Mathieu-Leger Country: USA Genre: Documentary The story of Willie O'Ree, the first African American hockey player to play in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Boston Bruins during the 1957-58 and 1960-61 seasons.Screening the largest number of films in its history this year, MFF runs October 17 to October 20 in Virginia's historic wine country located one hour from Washington, DC. Individual tickets will go on sale today at www.middleburgfilm.org.Share this: 
 Load-Date: October 2, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' Versus Pedro Almodovar: Why Two Foreign Sensations Could Be Major Oscar Movies
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
October 11, 2019 Friday 3:07 PM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 498 words
Byline: Eric Kohn and Anne Thompson
Body




Oct 11, 2019( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  After months of buzz that started with the Cannes Film Festival, two critical darlings have it to theaters: Pedro Almodóvar's 'Pain and Glory[1]' and Bong Joon Ho's Palme d'Or-winning 'Parasite[2].' Almodóvar's 'Pain and Glory' posted healthy figures on its opening weekend that made it the biggest foreign-language opening of year, and 'Parasite' is on track to be an even bigger sensation. Now comes the intriguing part: The movies might seem like shoo-ins for the Best International Film Oscar race, but their distributors are hoping for much more than that, pushing to elevate them to major categories like Best Director and Best Picture. What would it take for both to make the cut? That's one of the central topics in this week's episode of Screen Talk, as Eric Kohn and Anne Thompson sit down in New York to address the developing fall season. They also touch on other highlights from the New York Film Festival, which brings Anne to town, as well as the noble failures of 'Gemini Man,' opening this week. Listen to the full episode below.
https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/694231837...or;=%23ff5500...o;_play=false...e;_related=false...w;_comments=true...w;_user=true...w;_reposts=false...w;_teaser=true[3] Screen Talk is available oniTunes[4],Stitcher[5], andSoundcloud[6].Youcan subscribehere[7]or viaRSS[8]. Share your feedback withThompson[9]andKohn[10]on Twitter or sound off in the comments. Browse previous installmentshere[11], review the show oniTunes[12]and be sure to let us know if you'd like to hear the hosts address specific issues in upcoming editions of Screen Talk. Check out the rest of IndieWire'spodcasts[13]oniTunes right here.[14] This episode of Screen Talk was produced by Leonardo Adrian Garcia. [ 1]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/pain-and-glory/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 3]:            https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/694231837...or=%23ff5500...o_play=false...e_related=false...w_comments=true...w_user=true...w_reposts=false...w_teaser=true [ 4]:            https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 5]:            https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/indiewire-screen-talk [ 6]:            https://open.spotify.com/show/6jbr9jddtHqseeTUZZp9MN?si=TYdpjpI1SQ6rgv1jG5XQIA [ 7]:            https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 8]:            http://feeds.soundcloud.com/users/soundcloud:users:99423956/sounds.rss [ 9]:            https://twitter.com/akstanwyck/ [ 10]:            https://twitter.com/erickohn [ 11]:            https://www.indiewire.com/tag/screen-talk [ 12]:            https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 13]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/podcasts/ [ 14]:            https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 
 Load-Date: October 11, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' Versus Pedro Almodovar: Why Two Foreign Sensations Could Be Major Oscar Movies
Indiewire Film
October 11, 2019

 Copyright 2019 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 270 words
Body




After months of buzz that started with the Cannes Film Festival, two critical darlings have it to theaters: Pedro Almodóvar's "Pain and Glory" and Bong Joon Ho's Palme d'Or-winning "           Parasite." Almodóvar's "Pain and Glory" posted healthy figures on its opening weekend that made it the biggest foreign-language opening of year, and "Parasite" is on track to be an even bigger sensation. Now comes the intriguing part: The movies might seem like shoo-ins for the Best International Film Oscar race, but their distributors are hoping for much more than that, pushing to elevate them to major categories like Best Director and Best Picture. What would it take for both to make the cut?
That's one of the central topics in this week's episode of Screen Talk, as Eric Kohn and Anne Thompson sit down in New York to address the developing fall season. They also touch on other highlights from the New York Film Festival, which brings Anne to town, as well as the noble failures of "Gemini Man," opening this week.
Listen to the full episode below. 
Screen Talk is available on iTunes,            Stitcher, and            Soundcloud. You can subscribe            here or via            RSS. Share your feedback with            Thompson and            Kohn on Twitter or sound off in the comments. Browse previous installments            here, review the show on iTunes and be sure to let us know if you'd like to hear the hosts address specific issues in upcoming editions of Screen Talk. Check out the rest of IndieWire's podcasts on iTunes right here.
This episode of Screen Talk was produced by Leonardo Adrian Garcia.
 Load-Date: October 11, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' Wins Made Oscars 2020 the Most Satisfying in Years — IndieWire's Movie Podcast
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
February 14, 2020 Friday 5:06 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 452 words
Byline: Eric Kohn and Anne Thompson
Body




Feb 14, 2020( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  When 'Parasite[1]' made history on Oscar night, the enthusiasm for the outcome reached unparalleled heights. One year after the divisive 'Green Book' victory, Bong Joon Ho's dark story of class warfare swept the ceremony, taking home a record four awards for one man and becoming the first non-English-language film in history to win Best Picture. The energy was like a rock concert in the room at the Dolby Theatre. But what did it take for the movie to get across the finish line? And why did so few people tune in? In this week's episode of Screen Talk[2], Eric Kohn and Anne Thompson recap a short season and explain why the winners made for the most satisfying Oscar season in years, regardless of what happened with the ratings. They also talk about campaigns that fizzled out and what comes next. Listen to the full episode below. 
https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/760609858...or;=%23ff5500...o;_play=false...e;_related=false...w;_comments=true...w;_user=true...w;_reposts=false...w;_teaser=true[3] Screen Talk is available oniTunes[4],Stitcher[5], andSoundcloud[6].Youcan subscribehere[7]or viaRSS[8]. Share your feedback withThompson[9]andKohn[10]on Twitter or sound off in the comments. Browse previous installmentshere[11], review the show oniTunes[12]and be sure to let us know if you'd like to hear the hosts address specific issues in upcoming editions of Screen Talk. Check out the rest of IndieWire'spodcasts[13]oniTunes right here.[14] [ 1]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/screen-talk/ [ 3]:            https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/760609858...or=%23ff5500...o_play=false...e_related=false...w_comments=true...w_user=true...w_reposts=false...w_teaser=true [ 4]:            https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 5]:            https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/indiewire-screen-talk [ 6]:            https://open.spotify.com/show/6jbr9jddtHqseeTUZZp9MN?si=TYdpjpI1SQ6rgv1jG5XQIA [ 7]:            https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 8]:            http://feeds.soundcloud.com/users/soundcloud:users:99423956/sounds.rss [ 9]:            https://twitter.com/akstanwyck/ [ 10]:            https://twitter.com/erickohn [ 11]:            https://www.indiewire.com/tag/screen-talk [ 12]:            https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 [ 13]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/podcasts/ [ 14]:            https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/indiewire-podcast/id893977298?mt=2 
 Load-Date: February 14, 2020

 

End of Document


JAMIE EAST AT HOME South-Korean masterpiece Parasite hits home even harder in black & white
thesun.co.uk
July 24, 2020 Friday 12:21 AM GMT

 Copyright 2020 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM,TV & SHOWBIZ,FILM REVIEWS,THE SUN NEWSPAPER; Version:1
Length: 563 words
Byline: Jamie East
Body




                     NOT many films could be stripped of colour and made even better. It's a real testament to the cinematography that all the care that went into the grading of the original can be removed and you feel like you're in another movie entirely.                   
With Bong Joon-ho's Oscar-winning masterpiece the black and white makes it look even more stylish - oh, that house! But it does more than that. It ramps up the feeling of opulence or poverty, depending on the setting.
It's a wonderful excuse to revisit this amazing film with fresh eyes. If it passed you by before, this subtitled, twisted and dark comedy from South Korea completely lives up to expectation. It's utterly marvellous. 
The Kims are a four-piece family living in poverty. They have to contend with people urinating outside the window of their Seoul basement hovel, relying on the government to fumigate the streets so they can leave their window open to get the roaches out of their flat. It's grim and they're fed up with it.
When an opportunity arises for their son to teach English to the daughter of a rich businessman, they plot to infiltrate the wealthy family's life and leech as many of them as they can.
They're grifters, chancers, liars and thieves but you're rooting for them. In stark difference, the Parks are super-cool, super-rich, happy but vacant. You don't dislike them but their ambivalence towards the lower classes grates. 
As the Kims worm their way into the house, replacing staff one by one, you have no clue what will unfold - and nothing prepares you. Gripping. 
                     Parasite (Black & White), (15), 132mins                   
                     *****                   
                     Saint Frances                   
ON the face of it, Saint Frances appeared to be your standard "thirty-somethings don't really know what they want" fare - but by the time I was through with it, I was hooked.
Written by and starring newcomer Kelly O'Sullivan, we begin with the central character Bridget making two decisions that set the film on its path. 
One sees her hired as the nanny of a six-year-old girl, Frances, and the other leads to her having a medical abortion. 
As she begins to develop her relationship with Frances - played wonderfully by Ramona-Edith Williams - the slow-burning psychological effects of her abortion linger. 
At the coalface with a family dealing with their own career-juggling, and post-natal depression, Bridget quest-ions whether she was, or ever will be, ready for the same. As far as plot goes, there is very little of it. This is more a case of a 30-year-old woman questioning her life and meandering through in her own time. 
Whether that involves religion, period sex, gaslighting, breastfeeding in public or admission of parental failure doesn't particularly matter. 
These everyday, mostly female dilemmas are delivered in such a way you're initially jarred by the blasé and detached nature of it all - but this is the film's real strength. 
There's more left unsaid in Saint Frances than is heavily signposted in most others - and Kelly O'Sullivan has just delivered us a cult classic.
                     Saint Frances, (15), 100mins                    
                     *****                   
                     GOT a story? RING The Sun on 0207 782 4104 or WHATSAPP on 07423720250 or EMAIL exclusive@the-sun.co.uk
 Load-Date: July 24, 2020

 

End of Document


"Parasite", the masterful and unpredictable Korean film that conquers the world (and the awards)
CE Noticias Financieras English
January 13, 2020 Monday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 1669 words
Body




Parasite has become the big Asian movie star of recent months. Winner of the Palme d'Or in the latest edition of the Cannes Film Festival, and the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film (and that's just for the better two awards in a long list of awards), included in a list of best films released in the year 2019 for the places he passed and almost certainly nominated for the 2020 Oscar for best foreign film. As if this were not enough, Parasite has managed to reap, in addition to prestige, a lot of popularity both within and outside its country of origin. Something that is due, above all, to its narrative merits and its unpredictable handling of suspense.
For those who never saw anything from its director Bong Joon Ho, a film like Parasite will probably prove completely surprising. Those who, on the other hand, know this filmmaker, will appreciate in Parasite tones and themes very typical of one of the most important directors of contemporary cinema. To locate this director throughout his career, he has so far been making seven feature film and belongs to a generation of new filmmakers from South Korea that have emerged since the mid-1990s.
There are, to say some notable names (whether for the quality of their films, whether because of the enormous popularity of some of their feature films): Lee Chang Dong, Park Chan Wook, Kim Ki Duk, Hong Sang so, or Yeong Sang Ho. Some of them knew how to make commercial films different from the usual ones, which knew how to reread American genres by moving them to the streets of their country. Bong was always an expert on this last art. In fact, his films are often rabidly funny and feature shocking scenes. A quality that caught the attention of American producers who summoned him twice (the remarkable Snowpiecer and the failed Okja, made for Netflix) to direct major action and adventure productions.
His particularly striking and lucid cinema also made his prestige in the worlds of festivals and in a movie-goers audience appeared immediately. In fact, after an interesting but failed first film like Barking Dog Never Bites (Flandersui Gae-2000), he made a policeman called Memoirs of a Killer (Salinui chueok-2003), perhaps his first masterpiece.
There Bong recounted the story of a cruel serial killer and rapist who had young girls as victims. What seems to start as a conventional police officer where you have to catch a murderer in a small town, ends up drifting in a completely different place. Gradually, subtly, what ends up happening is the story of two detectives desperately trying to find a criminal who is not only beyond his capabilities but also beyond a police bureaucracy with precarious technology and a preparation in some cases practically zero. Memoirs of a Killer was Bong's first surprising film that revolved around two things that this director is obsessed with.
Bong Joon Ho and the Palm of Gold of Cannes by "Parasite" (REUTERS/Stephane Mahe) (Stephane Mahe/)
On the one hand, a cinematic idea: Bong has been well aware throughout his filmography that there are certain types of genres that can no longer be narrated in the same way and that can only be recovered by transgressing completely. In this way, he remeans the policeman in the aforementioned Memoirs of a Murderer, but also in Mother, a feature film that Bong would make in 2009 about a mother desperately trying to find a murdererbefore your child is convicted of a crime he did not commit. Meanwhile, in The Host (a 2003 film and perhaps his greatest masterpiece to date), he remeans monster cinema confronting a powerful and huge aquatic bug with a South Korean fringe family who must challenge both the fantasy spawn and a device this Korean and a paranoid society. In Snowpiecer, Bong focuses on a dystopian universe of action and science fiction in which he uses a furious political commentary on class division and the construction of systematic lies for population subjugation.
In all these cases there is a strong imprint of political and social cinema, an interest that in the case of Bong Joo Ho connects even with his own academic title (before dedicating himself to film graduated as a sociologist). Within these social interests, what persists most is a personal look at power relations. Not only because in his cinema there are tensions of class or authority (which most of the time is the same thing), but because more than once that power manifests itself awkwardly and even unconsciously. A clear example of this is in The Host. What stands out is that military forces can not only be cruel, but can lack all common sense and surrender to obedience of a greater power (in this case that of the United States) without squeaking. In Memoirs of a Killer, for example, small-town policemen use confessions via torture not only because of a context of widespread violence (the film takes place during a right-wing dictatorship that Suffered South Korea in the 1980s), but because of the they lack too much intelligence, and even in Okja the main villains present theself as a set of grotesque people who end up being overtaken in cunning by a teenage girl.
Of course, so much emphasis on the improbability or ignorance of certain characters results in more than one occasion when Bong's cinema uses, and much, satire and humor. But it is also true that the stupidity or ignorance of some of his characters is not only comical but also harmful and tragic. And this is where we enter one of the most amazing features of its cinema: its unpredictability. Whoever enters Bong Joon Ho's world enters a universe where anything seems to happen. His cinema is rich in narrative twists, and abrupt record changes that make it quickly move from the comical to the terrible. However, the interesting thing about your cinema is that these record changes, while looking rough at first glance, end up revealing as logical when you review the film or even finish thinking about it. I mean, Bong's cinema may be unpredictable, but this unpredictability is never free. Deep down, it ends up being a hopeful consequence, sometimes even logical both by the environment in which their characters live and by their own decisions.
Parasite is a perfect example of the latter aspect. Its plot revolves around a marginal family group in South Korea that uses the scam to gradually inhabit the home of a wealthy family. Their strategy will be that, progressively, each family member is occupying a different position, both from the servitude and the particular teaching staff of his children. At some point, Parasite is thematically twinned with two particularly resonant American films from last year: Us, by Jordan Peele, and especially Joker, by Todd Phillips. All these feature films have in common a similar idea: to present ourselves with a society divided into two classesvery marked social saloons, of which the lowest are furious and eager to occupy more privileged places as they may be, and the highest completely ignorant of what is happening with the most unfortunate sectors.
However, there is one thing that makes Parasite very different from the other two: people who occupy privileged places are not shown at any time with contempt. Their petty attitudes, while they may exist, not necessarily make them horrible villains or even bad people, but simply people who were lucky enough to be born in peaceful places where they could build a much better future. In any case, what gave them that privileged life is a world surrounded by a bubble of happiness that made them very naive for certain things, who do not know who are the people who entered their house or fully know each corner of their  own housing.
Considering the way rich characters are described, and the criminal actions of the less privileged, Parasite can prove to be a deceptively misanthropic film. But the truth is that misanthropy is a feeling that comes from the idea of thinking an evil man in his nature. Bong, on the other hand, does not think that his characters are evil, but that they are the product of a certain circumstance. In fact, there is no vile attitude on Parasite that one cannot end up understanding by the very context that its characters suffer. To the point this is so that until killing can turn towards the end an understandable attitude derived from characters who have reached a point of madness that should not be revealed.
In any case, at Parasite everything seems to be a matter of environments. Hence also in the film the figure of the architectural is so important. The rich are enchanted by the beautiful design of their large house in which they can stay protected and safe from threats; while the poor suffer in fragile houses, located in the worst possible place, where even something as common as heavy rain can be a threat. In these fragile existences, as one of the lower-class characters will say at one point in the film, you can't plan, you can't think medium or long-term because everything is permanently linked to survival after all. At some point then, that enchantment that poor characters have over the beautiful mansions is not necessarily frivolous or superficial: it is rather a logical attitude in the search for a shell that allows them to go for their life with greater security. And at some point too, the abrupt record changes of this film are not only part of a style mark of its director, but also a reflection of unstable stocks, which can be altered overnight with as sharpness as the very tone of a film at the same time comedic, tragic and desperate time.
Parasite is a bitter and rabid lystered reflection of such lives; one that manages to talk about poverty without miserabilisms, or demagogic gestures, and about class divisions without a Matic conception. All in all, one of those happily different feature films, which cinema delivers very occasionally.
Read
Polanski and the crossroads between the accuser and the accused: allegations that do not cease and the boycott of his films
Ten Argentine movie movies to enjoy free via streaming
 Load-Date: February 26, 2020

 

End of Document


‘Parasite’ Has Shocked the Box Office, Helped by an Upstart Studio
The New York Times 
November 27, 2019 Wednesday 13:48 EST

 Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; media
Length: 1075 words
Byline: Nicole Sperling
Highlight: The indie distributor Neon has Oscar contenders with Bong Joon Ho’s latest and the documentary “Apollo 11.”  
Body




The indie distributor Neon has Oscar contenders with Bong Joon Ho’s latest and the documentary “Apollo 11.”
LOS ANGELES — It was not a surprise that critics would love “Parasite,” the latest film from the acclaimed director            Bong Joon Ho. But box-office success for this sometimes funny, sometimes horrifying Korean-language tale of economic inequality was no sure thing. Enter Tom Quinn, the head of Neon, a rising independent film distributor and production company.
Mr. Quinn, who had worked with Mr. Bong on four of his earlier movies, secured the North American distribution rights to “Parasite” on the strength of the script in October last year. He was there at the Cannes Film Festival in May, when the film received an eight-minute standing ovation and the festival’s highest award, the Palme d’Or. After returning home, Mr. Quinn saw it once more in a theater. He said he had cried through the ending.
That was months before a theatrical run that has defied assumptions about the entertainment industry at a time when streaming has threatened the cinematic experience and movies with superheroes are among the few surefire            box-office bets.
Since rolling out internationally over the summer and in North American theaters last month, “Parasite” has grossed more than $114 million worldwide. Domestically, where it has played on 620 screens, it is still going strong, having earned more than $16 million. Mr. Bong, the director, said he appreciated working with someone like Mr. Quinn, an executive unjaded enough to weep in a movie theater.
“I was a little taken aback when I heard that,” Mr. Bong said in an email. “Usually, distributors focus on analyzing and luring the audience through marketing campaigns, which is of course necessary. But Tom can still put himself into the audience. I think that’s pretty unique.”
Mr. Quinn, 49, is not one for the sky-is-falling mentality that has gripped much of Hollywood. He has built Neon into a power among independent distributors with an old-school formula: trusting his taste and paying to acquire intelligent films that audiences will pay to see in theaters.
“Where else can we create this communal experience?” he said. “It has a little bit of fellowship, a lot of fun and it only happens in church, school and the theaters. I think there is something very sacred about that.”
He started Neon in 2017 with Tim League, the founder of the Alamo Drafthouse theater chain, who is no longer involved in the company’s daily operations. In addition to “Parasite,” Neon scored this year with the documentary“Apollo 11,” which had a 38-week theatrical run on its way to earning more than $16 million worldwide.
While box-office revenue for independent films was sinking during the first half of the year, down 36 percent, according to the box office analyst Paul Dergarabedian, Neon also found success with the Aretha Franklin documentary “Amazing Grace,” which played in theaters for 50 weeks starting last December.
“They’ve helped reignite interest in theatrical documentaries,” Stephen Gilula, a co-chairman of Fox Searchlight, said of Neon.
“Parasite” is practically guaranteed an Oscar nomination in the international category — a would-be first for a South Korean film — and has a strong chance of a best picture nomination. Neon’s marketing of the film, including a cryptic Instagram account, is in keeping with the tantalizing campaigns for earlier movies that included surprise plot developments like “The Sixth Sense,” “The Crying Game” and “Psycho.”
“Looking at Neon’s original and witty marketing campaigns, I can feel the energy that comes with being a young company and a young distributor,” Mr. Bong said.
After working at a video store when he was a student at the University of North Carolina, Mr. Quinn started his career at Samuel Goldwyn Films before joining Magnolia Pictures, where he discovered Mr. Bong’s “The Host” and its follow-up, “Mother.”
In 2011 he went to work for Harvey Weinstein, starting Radius-TWC, a label at the Weinstein Company. In that job Mr. Quinn protected Mr. Bong’s 126-minute cut of the 2013 thriller “Snowpiercer” from the boss, who was known as Harvey Scissorhands for his tendency to cut films in the editing room. Mr. Quinn left in 2015, two years before the company imploded after sexual misconduct allegations against Mr. Weinstein, and little by little he raised $30 million to get Neon off the ground.
The company, which has 27 employees, became a player at the Toronto Film Festival in 2017, when it joined with the media investment company 30West to beat out Netflix for the domestic rights to “I, Tonya,” despite offering considerably less money, Mr. Quinn said. “I, Tonya” went on to make $30 million in theaters and won a best supporting actress Oscar for Allison Janney, who played the mother of the protagonist, the figure skater Tonya Harding.
Mr. Quinn said Neon had often found itself in competition with Netflix. “A lot of times the money is the same, and a lot of times the money is three times what we are offering,” he said. “But they are offering it without a guarantee of a theatrical window or even a theatrical qualifying window. And we are committed to the theatrical experience.”
Last year 30West bought a controlling interest in Neon, which has offices in New York and Los Angeles. The deal has given the company some protection in an industry littered with studios and distributors that have flamed out after hot streaks. Neon will thrive if Mr. Quinn’s eclectic taste continues to match up with what audiences want.
A recent disappointment centered on the French film “Portrait of a Lady on Fire,” a period romance from the writer-director Céline Sciamma. Neon acquired the North American rights to the film with Hulu, the streaming service controlled by the Walt Disney Company, and will release it Dec. 6. The early reviews were ecstatic, and it won the best screenplay award at Cannes, but its awards prospects took a hit when France selected Ladj Ly’s “Les Misérables” as the film it would submit to the 2020 Oscars.
“It was extremely disappointing,” Mr. Quinn said. “I don’t think I could talk for a day. I was really sad for Céline.”
PHOTOS: A scene from “Parasite,” which has grossed more than $114 million worldwide. Left, Tom Quinn, the head of the independent film distributor that picked up the movie from South Korean director Bong Joon Ho. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEON; STEPHANIE NORITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3)
 Load-Date: November 30, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' Hooks You With Its Emotional Power And Extraordinary Cunning
NPR Fresh Air Fresh Air
October 10, 2019 Thursday

 Copyright 2019 National Public Radio (R) All Rights Reserved
Length: 985 words
Anchors: Justin Chang
Body




TERRY GROSS:                 This is FRESH AIR. Earlier this year, "Parasite" became the first South Korean movie to win the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival. It's the latest picture from Bong Joon-ho, the director of "Snowpiercer" and "Okja," and it could also become the first Korean movie to receive an Oscar nomination as Best International Feature Film, the category formerly known as Best Foreign Language Film. Our film critic Justin Chang says "Parasite" is a masterful new work from one of the world's most exciting filmmakers.             
JUSTIN CHANG:                 I was fortunate enough to go into "Parasite" knowing almost nothing about it. Bong Joon-ho's brilliant new movie packs the kinds of stunning, multilayered surprises that deserve to be experienced as fresh as possible. I'll tread as cautiously as I can, but suffice to say that "Parasite" is a darkly comic thriller about two families - the Parks, who are very rich, and the Kims, who are very poor.             
                Mr. and Mrs. Kim live with their son Ki-woo and their daughter Ki-jung in a cramped apartment in Seoul. Years of poverty have made them shrewd, resilient and tough and not above the occasional petty theft. Like the family in last year's great Japanese drama "Shoplifters," they've managed to survive by relying on their wits and on each other. One day, Ki-woo, a high school graduate, gets a job as an English tutor for an upper-class teenage girl named Da-hye. Her father Mr. Park is a millionaire tech titan, and they live in a gated, modernist fortress of a house designed by a famous architect.             
                Ki-woo begins visiting the house to give his English lessons, and it's there that he meets Mrs. Park, who let slip that she's looking for an art teacher for her mischief-making young son. Thinking fast, Ki-woo mentions a distant acquaintance who might be good for the job, and within days, his sister Ki-jung has been hired as a very expensive tutor. The Kims enjoy their sudden boost in income, even as they strain to keep the Parks in the dark about their family connection and their lack of proper credentials. But the lies don't end there, and their scheme grows only more dangerous in its ambition.             
                For roughly its first hour, "Parasite" is the most deviously entertaining con artist thriller I've seen in years. Director Bong pulls the pieces together with the elegance and flair of a conductor attacking a great symphony. Inch by inch, the Kims expand their domain. No piece of information, whether it's the matter of the housekeeper's allergy or the sexual habits of Mr. Park's driver, is too trivial to be used to their advantage. Bong draws us into a wicked sense of complicity with the Kims, who, for all their duplicity, are never hard to root for.             
                But as fun as it is to see the Parks get hoodwinked, Bong doesn't turn them into easy villains. We see how gullible and vulnerable they are behind their bolted doors and a high-tech security system. We see the cracks in their perfect family facade. The actress Jo Yeo-jeong gives an especially nuanced performance as Mrs. Park, who, for all her breezy entitlement, lives in the shadow of her cold, unfeeling husband.             
                The Kims, by contrast, are a model of intimacy and fairness. When money and space are this tight, everyone has to pull their weight. They depend on each other so completely that they seem to function less like individuals than like a single organism. Maybe that makes them the parasite of the title, or maybe not. As the movie races toward a suspenseful and terrifying conclusion, it leaves little doubt as to whether the haves or the have-nots represent the greater scourge in a capitalist society.             
                Bong has always been deft at synthesizing thrills and politics. He previously tackled class warfare in his English-language thriller "Snowpiercer," but "Parasite" feels even more closely related to his wonderful 2006 monster movie "The Host," which also followed a desperate family trying to survive. The star of "The Host" was the popular actor Song Kang-ho, who returns and parasite as Mr. Kim and gradually becomes the movie's angry moral center. More than his wife or kids, he understands what it means to be looked down on by people like the Parks and regarded as less than human.             
                At first, you're right there with the Kims until the story takes the first of many jaw-dropping turns. "Parasite" is seamless in the way it shuffles moods, tones and genres and downright Hitchcockian in the way it manipulates your sympathies. It's a movie of extraordinary cunning and devastating emotional power, and after three viewings, I'm still not sure quite how to classify it. Is it a comedy or a tragedy, a thriller or a satire, an art film or popular entertainment? Maybe it's best to simply call it what it is - a masterpiece.             
TERRY GROSS:                 Justin Chang is a film critic at The L.A. Times. If you'd like to catch up on FRESH AIR interviews you missed, like this week's interviews with Christopher Wylie, who blew the whistle on the role of Cambridge Analytica in spreading disinformation during the 2016 presidential campaign, or with countertenor Anthony Roth Costanzo, who's about to star in the Metropolitan Opera's production of the Philip Glass opera "Akhnaten," check out our podcast. You'll find lots of FRESH AIR interviews.             
                FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit, Phyllis Myers, Sam Briger, Lauren Krenzel, Ann Marie Baldonado, Mooj Zadie, Seth Kelley and Joel Wolfram. Therese Madden directed today's show. I'm Terry Gross.             
                            (SOUNDBITE OF THELONIOUS MONK'S "HACKENSACK")            
 Load-Date: October 13, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' is a must-see even with no big names
USA TODAY
October 10, 2019 Thursday
FIRST EDITION

 Copyright 2019 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 1D
Length: 845 words
Byline: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY
Body




NEW YORK - A must-see contender has crept into the awards race, and it doesn't star a psychopathic clown or Brad Pitt's abs.
Meet "Parasite" (in theaters Friday in New York and Los Angeles, expanding throughout October), the bracing, droll and wildly unnerving social thriller that became the first Korean-language film to clinch the prestigious Palme d'Or award at Cannes Film Festival.
In the months leading up to its U.S. release, Bong Joon-ho's new movie has earned the kind of rapturous acclaim most filmmakers could only dream of, with a perfect 100% positive score from critics on Rotten Tomatoes (out of more than 125 reviews counted), and buzzed-about stops at Toronto and Telluride festivals, where hundreds were turned away from sold-out screenings.
Now, "Parasite" is widely considered the front-runner to win best international feature film (formerly known as best foreign-language film) at this year's Academy Awards, with more than half of prognosticators on awards site GoldDerby also predicting a best picture nomination. Bong is heavily expected to pick up nods for best director and original screenplay as well, following a similar path to awards glory blazed by Alfonso Cuaron's black-and-white "Roma," which won Mexico its first best foreign-language film Oscar last February.
So what's all the fuss about, and what do you need to know going in? USA TODAY sat down with Bong and the film's stars to get the inside scoop.
It's an 'Avengers'-level minefield of potential spoilers
"Parasite" is a twisty, bloody thrill ride that is best enjoyed if you go in blind.
"Don't look up anything prior," advises actress Park So-dam. "Just come in without any expectation and no knowledge of the film."
But if you need a little bit more to go off of, here's the basic gist: Initially envisioned by Bong as a play and set almost entirely indoors, "Parasite" tells the story of two disparate families: the impoverished Kims, who live in a cramped, subterranean apartment doing odd jobs to make ends meet; and the affluent Parks, whose cushy lifestyle is dutifully run by a small army of chauffeurs, housekeepers and tutors.
The charismatic but uneducated Kim Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) cons his way into an English tutoring gig for the Parks' teenage daughter (Jung Ziso), and slowly begins to infiltrate their home: He cleverly deceives the Parks into firing their staff, and convinces them to hire his sister Ki-jung (Park So-dam), mom Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin) and dad Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho). But the Kims' get-rich scheme goes violently off the rails in the film's suspenseful second half, descending into chaos that packs an emotional wallop.
'Parasite' isn't a horror
movie - or is it?
Although its crawly title suggests bloodsucking body horror, the R-rated thriller is rarely scary and only occasionally gory.
"When the film begins, it feels like your typical  dark comedy film, so the audience can just relax and watch it," Bong says. "Halfway through, there's a turning point that leads to all these uncontrollable situations and the audience doesn't have time to wonder, 'What is the genre?' They're just dragged to the end point without any time to consider what's going on. So when they leave the theater, the audience just gives up on trying to define the genre, and that's what I wanted."
The film explores class divides
in darkly funny fashion
To often literal effect, "Parasite" shows the upstairs-downstairs dichotomy between rich and poor, as the Kims attempt to better their hapless circumstances under the feet of the blithe Park family.
"The messages (Bong) is trying to give people about poverty differences and problems are universal," Choi says. "It has a lot of meanings and metaphors, and you can actually have a conversation about it after."
The movie's title is even up for interpretation: "A parasite is an entity that feeds off another thing, but if you look at the film, it's not important to designate which side is parasitic," Song says. "Certain characters are parasitic, but the message of the film is that everyone in society has to live in harmony and have respect toward one another."
You'll never look at
peaches the same again
In a movie chock-full of striking imagery, one of the most memorable is that of a peach, which Ki-jung scrapes of its fuzz. Stealthily, she sprinkles the fuzz on the Parks' unassuming maid, who is fiercely allergic and falls ill on the job. Fearing she'll infect their kids, the Parks fire the housekeeper on the spot.
The fruit has become the unofficial "mascot" of "Parasite": Strings of peach emojis frequently accompany tweets about the movie.
"Peaches are the most cinematic (food), just in terms of the visual aesthetics and the fact that the fuzz is barely visible, so it's easy to attack someone with," Bong says.
Coincidentally, peaches were also central to another recent awards heavyweight: 2017's "Call Me By Your Name," in which Timothee Chalamet's Elio pleasures himself with the fruit. Bong laughs off the connection between the two films, deadpanning, "I hope it helps all the peach farmers across the world." 
 Load-Date: October 10, 2019

 

End of Document


The Oscars: Parasite sweeps and everything is okay
The Lawrentian: Lawrence University
February 14, 2020 Friday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1
Length: 802 words
Body




BONG HIVE STAND UUUUUP! The Oscars were this past Sunday night, and for the first time since "Moonlight" blindsided everyone, especially Warren Beatty, in 2016, I felt real justice from the Academy and its voters. "Parasite," a film directed by acclaimed Korean director Bong Joon Ho, became the first movie not in the English language to win best picture. And if that was not enough of a prize, it also took home awards for Best International Feature, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. I plan on reviewing it properly sometime later in the term when more people have seen it because I am not sure I will be able to review it without spoilers. So go check it out now because it is available to stream as we speak!
Moving into this Oscars season, many fans were gunning for "Parasite" to win major awards but feared industry guild and academy members were not quite ready to recognize a non-English language film with some of their highest honors. Even though "Parasite" won the prestigious Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, that was no guarantee of success in the U.S. awards circuit. However, that expectation started to change towards the end of this awards season when "Parasite" began to sweep major guild awards including the Screen Writers Guild Award for Best Original Screenplay and the SAG Award for Best Performance by a Cast in Motion Picture. Big wins at these guild awards tend to indicate higher chances of a film receiving top honors at the Oscars. Then, lo and behold, come the biggest night in Hollywood, it was four Oscar trophies for Director Bong and his collaborators.
There is a lot to be happy about with these wins. A "foreign language film" taking home awards in these important categories signifies that film is becoming a truly international industry. Bong Joon Ho has thrown a great deal of shade at American audiences and Hollywood in general this season, calling the Oscars a "local" awards show and encouraging audiences to get over the "one inch barrier" of subtitles. Hopefully these wins and an impressive and ever-increasing domestic box office gross for "Parasite" signify that American film audiences are opening up to non-English language films and international film in general. I would also hope it encourages more U.S. production companies to take a chance on American multilingual films like "The Farewell" (dir. Lulu Wang), the winner of Best Feature at this year's Independent Spirit Awards.
Then, finally, it is just an absolute delight to see Bong Joon Ho enjoy his success and be overwhelmed with the entire experience of winning four Oscars in a night. His little giggle while staring at his first Oscar statue and the ever so quotable, "I will drink until next morning," were just a couple highlights of Director Bong's speeches. Also, he made two of his Oscars Statues kiss each other, which was adorable. Director Bong said gay rights! But all joking aside, "Parasite" taking Best Picture is going to be a win and a movie that we remember for years to come, and I only hope that it is the first sign of a shift towards international inclusivity in a very rigid industry.
The rest of the night went mostly as planned: Roger Deakins rightfully received the Best Cinematography award for his impressive work on "1917." A master of the craft, Deakins was instrumental in creating the illusion of "1917's" one continuous take.
Hildur Guðnadóttir took home the award for Best Original Score. Readers of my column will recall that I singled her out as one of the only things I liked in the movie "Joker." I especially appreciated her acceptance speech where she encouraged young women to hear the music in their hearts and speak up. Though she is not the first woman to receive that award, I look forward to women who win Best Original Score down the line citing her and her speech as a point of inspiration.
The four acting category winners were consistent with previous awards ceremonies this season. Laura Dern and Brad Pitt won Best Supporting Actress for "Marriage Story" and Best Supporting Actor for "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," respectively. Renee Zellweger won Best Actress for her portrayal of Judy Garland in "Judy," and Joaquin Phoenix gave a truly bizarre speech about human rights and not artificially inseminating cows while accepting his Best Actor Award for "Joker."
Though the actual ceremony was a bit rough and disjointed, the lack of a host allowed to show more footage of performances, a full segment for a medley of Best Original Score nominees and long speech times for artists who deserve their recognition and a moment to acknowledge those who made their success possible. People introducing people who then introduced a clip which introduced Eminem aside, it was a fine ceremony with many earned wins and joyful moments. #BONGHIVE
 Load-Date: February 15, 2020

 

End of Document


'Parasite' Has Shocked the Box Office, Helped by an Upstart Studio
The New York Times - International Edition
November 30, 2019 Saturday

 Copyright 2019 International Herald Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS
Length: 1025 words
Byline: Nicole Sperling
Body




The indie distributor Neon has Oscar contenders with Bong Joon Ho's latest and the documentary "Apollo 11."
LOS ANGELES - It was not a surprise that critics would love "Parasite," the latest film from the acclaimed director Bong Joon Ho. But box-office success for this sometimes funny, sometimes horrifying Korean-language tale of economic inequality was no sure thing. Enter Tom Quinn, the head of Neon, a rising independent film distributor and production company.
Mr. Quinn, who had worked with Mr. Bong on four of his earlier movies, secured the North American distribution rights to "Parasite" on the strength of the script in October last year. He was there at the Cannes Film Festival in May, when the film received an eight-minute standing ovation and the festival's highest award, the Palme d'Or. After returning home, Mr. Quinn saw it once more in a theater. He said he had cried through the ending.
That was months before a theatrical run that has defied assumptions about the entertainment industry at a time when streaming has threatened the cinematic experience and movies with superheroes are among the few surefire box-office bets.
Since rolling out internationally over the summer and in North American theaters last month, "Parasite" has grossed more than $114 million worldwide. Domestically, where it has played on 620 screens, it is still going strong, having earned more than $16 million. Mr. Bong, the director, said he appreciated working with someone like Mr. Quinn, an executive unjaded enough to weep in a movie theater.
"I was a little taken aback when I heard that," Mr. Bong said in an email. "Usually, distributors focus on analyzing and luring the audience through marketing campaigns, which is of course necessary. But Tom can still put himself into the audience. I think that's pretty unique."
Mr. Quinn, 49, is not one for the sky-is-falling mentality that has gripped much of Hollywood. He has built Neon into a power among independent distributors with an old-school formula: trusting his taste and paying to acquire intelligent films that audiences will pay to see in theaters.
"Where else can we create this communal experience?" he said. "It has a little bit of fellowship, a lot of fun and it only happens in church, school and the theaters. I think there is something very sacred about that."
He started Neon in 2017 with Tim League, the founder of the Alamo Drafthouse theater chain, who is no longer involved in the company's daily operations. In addition to "Parasite," Neon scored this year with the documentary "Apollo 11," which had a 38-week theatrical run on its way to earning more than $16 million worldwide.
While box-office revenue for independent films was sinking during the first half of the year, down 36 percent, according to the box office analyst Paul Dergarabedian, Neon also found success with the Aretha Franklin documentary "Amazing Grace," which played in theaters for 50 weeks starting last December.
"They've helped reignite interest in theatrical documentaries," Stephen Gilula, a co-chairman of Fox Searchlight, said of Neon.
"Parasite" is practically guaranteed an Oscar nomination in the international category - a would-be first for a South Korean film - and has a strong chance of a best picture nomination. Neon's marketing of the film, including a cryptic Instagram account, is in keeping with the tantalizing campaigns for earlier movies that included surprise plot developments like "The Sixth Sense," "The Crying Game" and "Psycho."
"Looking at Neon's original and witty marketing campaigns, I can feel the energy that comes with being a young company and a young distributor," Mr. Bong said.
After working at a video store when he was a student at the University of North Carolina, Mr. Quinn started his career at Samuel Goldwyn Films before joining Magnolia Pictures, where he discovered Mr. Bong's "The Host" and its follow-up, "Mother."
In 2011 he went to work for Harvey Weinstein, starting Radius-TWC, a label at the Weinstein Company. In that job Mr. Quinn protected Mr. Bong's 126-minute cut of the 2013 thriller "Snowpiercer" from the boss, who was known as Harvey Scissorhands for his tendency to cut films in the editing room. Mr. Quinn left in 2015, two years before the company imploded after sexual misconduct allegations against Mr. Weinstein, and little by little he raised $30 million to get Neon off the ground.
The company, which has 27 employees, became a player at the Toronto Film Festival in 2017, when it joined with the media investment company 30West to beat out Netflix for the domestic rights to "I, Tonya," despite offering considerably less money, Mr. Quinn said. "I, Tonya" went on to make $30 million in theaters and won a best supporting actress Oscar for Allison Janney, who played the mother of the protagonist, the figure skater Tonya Harding.
Mr. Quinn said Neon had often found itself in competition with Netflix. "A lot of times the money is the same, and a lot of times the money is three times what we are offering," he said. "But they are offering it without a guarantee of a theatrical window or even a theatrical qualifying window. And we are committed to the theatrical experience."
Last year 30West bought a controlling interest in Neon, which has offices in New York and Los Angeles. The deal has given the company some protection in an industry littered with studios and distributors that have flamed out after hot streaks. Neon will thrive if Mr. Quinn's eclectic taste continues to match up with what audiences want.
A recent disappointment centered on the French film "Portrait of a Lady on Fire," a period romance from the writer-director Céline Sciamma. Neon acquired the North American rights to the film with Hulu, the streaming service controlled by the Walt Disney Company, and will release it Dec. 6. The early reviews were ecstatic, and it won the best screenplay award at Cannes, but its awards prospects took a hit when France selected Ladj Ly's "Les Misérables" as the film it would submit to the 2020 Oscars.
"It was extremely disappointing," Mr. Quinn said. "I don't think I could talk for a day. I was really sad for Céline."
 Load-Date: November 29, 2019

 

End of Document


The greatest films to win Best Picture at the Oscars, from Gone With The Wind to Parasite
standard.co.uk
January 13, 2020 Monday 4:39 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Evening Standard Limited All Rights Reserved
 
Section: FILM; Version:3
Length: 2146 words
Byline: Harry Fletcher
Body




Hollywood just wouldn't be Hollywood without the Oscars - and just in the nick of time, this year's ceremony proved why.
The win for Parasite is the Academy's answer to a public tired of predictable wins and a lack of diversity. The 2020 nominations were most notable for who was left out: only one person of colour picked up a nomination in the acting categories, while no female directors got the nod. 
Clearly then, they might not always get it right - but since 1929, the Academy Awards have been committed to celebrating the greatest films ever made.
And while the Best Picture choices can be divisive - you won't find 1999's Shakespeare In Love, 2006's Crash or            controversial 2019 winner Green Book anywhere near this list - it's still by far the most significant award in film, and arguably even popular culture as a whole.
From legendary movies of the 40s and 50s, right up to contemporary classics, these are the greatest Oscar winners of all time.
                     Gone With The Wind (1939)                   
Gone With The Wind set the blueprint for the countless dramas of Hollywood's Golden Age that followed: a couple embark on a passionate but turbulent relationship, with things ending in tumultuous circumstances. It might be a familiar formula, but Gone With The Wind has never been matched for emotional poignancy. Vivien Leigh and Clark Gable are peerless in the 1939 classic, whichs plays out against the backdrop of the American Civil War.
Although the Oscars began more than a decade previously, Gone With the Wind is one of the the first winners still widely celebrated by mainstream audiences today, though the film's attitudes to race are undoubtedly deeply problematic - New York Post critic Lou Lumenick is just one to criticise the film for romanticising slavery, called for it to be banned in 2015.
In 1939 though, the thoughts of the Academy were well aligned with popular opinion. As well as being lauded by critics, it was the biggest commercial success of its time, with its box office takings coming in at around $393m - £3.4 billion when adjusted for inflation. One of the biggest success stories at the Awards at the time, it took the prize for Outstanding Production, Best Director for Victor Fleming, Best Supporting Actress for Hattie McDaniel and Best Adapted Screenplay.
                     Casablanca (1943)                   
Even seven decades on from its release, the chemistry of Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman in Casablanca has yet to be matched in Hollywood. The pair's aching, on-off romance is as turbulent as the film's war-torn backdrop, and beautifully realised by two actors at the absolute peak of their powers. From the first moment they're seen together on screen, the viewer buys into the couple's past, present and future - whatever that may be. 
Casablanca manages to be sweeping and grandiose in its outlook, while also capturing a searing romantic intimacy. It is rightly regarded as of the defining movies of Hollywood's golden age and one of the most enduring love stories in film. Fans have also got the incredible screenplay to thank for some of the most quotable moments in film history - "Of all the gin joints in all the towns...", "Here's looking at you, kid" and "Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship" to name but a few.
The decision to eschew a cliched happy ending have helped the film's legacy live on too. The heartbreaking final scenes gave the movie whole new layer of pathos, ensuring it could never be pigeonholed as just another doe-eyed romance from the war. 
                     All About Eve (1950)                   
All About Eve marked a breakthrough for the Academy in 1950, becoming the first movie with a predominantly female cast to win Best Picture.
The film, which follows the insidious relationship between a fading Broadway star and a younger fan, features a career-best performance from Bette Davis. She's fabulous as leading lady Margo Channing, who begins to fear the threat of Anne Baxter's superfan Eve Harrington after allowing her into her inner circle.
The movie also features one of the earliest performances from Marilyn Monroe - an unknown at the time, who would go on to breakthrough with Gentlemen Prefer Blondes a few years later.
                     The Apartment (1960)                   
After making his name with films like The Lost Weekend in 1945 and Sunset Boulevard in 1950, Billy Wilder turned in two of the greatest romantic comedies ever made in the space of a year; Some Like It Hot and The Apartment.
In many ways, the Best Picture-winning latter is the perfect movie: there are tears and laughter in equal measure, with a tenderness that never tips over into sentimentality. Jack Lemmon is brilliant as extorted businessman CC "Bud" Baxter, who falls for Shirley MacLaine's Fran Kubelik in unfortunate circumstances. The actor was integral to the success of both Some Like It Hot and the Apartment, expertly treading the line between comedy and tragedy and developing a wonderful chemistry with the excellent MacLaine. It's an ineffably beautiful film, which just proves that comedies don't always get overlooked at the Oscars.
                     Lawrence of Arabia (1962)                   
Some of the most stunning choreography ever put to screen can be found in Lawrence of Arabia, an epic historical drama from director David Lean. Peter O'Toole delivered a star-making performance as the titular TE Lawrence, the British Lieutenant who played a key role during the British army's Sinai and Palestine campaigns of WWI. Omar Sharif is also fabulous as Hashemite Arab leader Sherif Ali, who developed great on-screen chemistry with O'Toole. 
It's breathtaking in its scale, mixing technical achievement, grandiose staging and choreography with intimate character studies. The film is a towering achievement of cinema, with O'Toole - possessor of the most striking blue eyes in cinema - right at the heart of its success.
                     The Godfather (1972)                   
The Godfather is so synonymous with greatness, it's sometimes taken for granted just how close to cinematic perfection the film gets. 
The incredible cinematography and atmosphere of the piece is testament Francis Ford Coppola's position as one of the leading filmmakers in Hollywood history - something he'd go on to prove with Apocalypse Now four years later.
Coppola's masterpiece features a host of powerhouse performances from the likes of Robert Duvall, James Caan, and not least Marlon Brando - who Coppola had to fight hard to cast in the film at the time, following a string of disappointing roles and a controversial performance in Last Tango in Paris. Talia Shire, Diane Keaton and John Cazale are also superb, while the movie marked Al Pacino as one of the finest actors of his generation. 
The movie picked up Best Picture, as well as Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Actor for Brando. The Godfather II followed, famously becoming the only sequel to ever win the Best Picture Oscar.
                     One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975)                   
Jack Nicholson was on the most charismatic form of his career in this adaptation of Ken Kesey's novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. The film takes a nuanced look at mental illness, exploring power dynamics in an Oregon psychiatric hospital and the draconian conditions inmates are kept in.
Nicholson plays repeat offender Randle McMurphy, who is moved to the institution from prison and encounters the tyrannical Nurse Ratched - one of the most subtly unnerving movie villains ever, played to perfection by Louise Fletcher.
The movie was as hilarious at it was harrowing, and despite strong competition from Dog Day Afternoon and Jaws, its brilliance was recognised with Oscars for Best Picture, Lead Actor, Lead Actress, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay.
                     The Silence Of The Lambs (1992)                   
Jonathan Demme's unforgettable Silence of the Lambs became only the third film ever to win the big five Oscars at the 1992 ceremony: Best Picture, Lead Actor, Lead Actress, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. It Happened One Night and One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest were the only films to have managed it before. 
Jodie Foster brought a fascinating mix of strength, intelligence and vulnerability to the role of prodigious FBI trainee Clarice Starling, forming one of cinema's finest odd couple relationships with Anthony Hopkins's Hannibal Lecter. Hopkins, at the peak of his powers, brought just enough pantomime camp and grandeur, as well as fantastic physicality to the role. 
It's also one of the most quotable movies ever made, which holds up spectacularly well nearly 30 years on. It's also easy to forget how much the film defied Oscars convention at the time. The Academy has long been reluctant to recognise horror in the Best Picture category - movies as visceral and as violent as The Silence of the Lambs often fail to win recognition at the Awards, which makes its success all the more remarkable.
                     12 Years A Slave (2014)                   
Steve McQueen received the Oscars recognition he deserved in 2013, following his powerful films Hunger and Shame a few years earlier. 12 Years A Slave rightly won Best Picture at the Academy Awards in 2014, which marked one of the strongest years for the category in recent times - Dallas Buyers Club, American Hustle, Nebraska, Captain Phillips, Gravity, Her, Philomena and The Wolf of Wall Street were also nominated.
The film tells the story of Solomon Northup, a free man subject to unimaginable horrors after being separated from his family and sold into slavery. The movie is staggering in scale and ambition, and features one of the most impressive ensemble casts of the decade so far. There are fantastic performances from the likes of Lupita Nyong'o, Paul Dano, Paul Giamatti, Benedict Cumberbatch, Sarah Paulson and Brad Pitt, as well as the beautiful, stoic performance from Chiwetel Ejiofor in the lead role. The Academy also recognised the tyrannical performance from McQueen's long-term collaborator Michael Fassbender as slave owner Edwin Epps with a Best Supporting Actor nomination.
                     Moonlight (2017)                   
Barry Jenkins announced himself as a leading filmmaker of his generation with Moonlight - the stunning, semi-autobiographical tale of a young black man growing up on the poverty-stricken streets of Miami, discovering his identity and sexuality in the most testing of circumstances. The beautiful coming-of-age tale is told in three distinct time periods, starring three different actors in the main protagonist role. The effect is astonishing - few films have ever tackled the subjects of masculinity and sexuality so eloquently.
The film will, inevitably, be associated with the infamous La La Land/Oscars envelope debacle at the 2017 ceremony, but this timeless piece of filmmaking should be remembered as one of the most awe inspiring movies of the 21st century.
                     Parasite (2020)                   
The win of Moonlight looked, for a moment, to be a double-edged sword: on the one hand, it proved the Oscars could be progressive and inclusive. On the other, the win offered the Academy an easy rebuttal to criticisms over a lack of representation. Parasite's win feels weightier. It stands as the first-ever foreign language film to win Best Film - though it picked up International Feature film too, grasping the double win that eluded Roma in 2019 - and it's an utterly deserved win: this is the Academy doing more than trying to swat away the critics.
South Korean master Bong Joon-ho, known for his work on Okja and Snowpiercer, has created one of the most remarkable pieces of filmmaking of recent times, which has transcended genre and language to win rave reviews everywhere. Set in Seoul, it follows two opposing families, one rich and one poor; to watch their relationship unravels is a remarkable thing. A visceral powerhouse, the way the narrative is constructed is uniquely insidious, gripping and moving, while performances across the board are flawless, making this surely one of the best ensemble pieces of recent times. It is a bold and thrilling watch and, as the Standard's David Sexton wrote in his five-star review: "it freely overrides any genre categorisation, now seeming social realism, now almost Brian Rix-style farce, then thriller, then horror or fantasy, without ever being confined by any of them." 
"Once you overcome the one-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films," Bong had said, ahead of the Oscars. This incredible piece of filmmaking is testament to that - the director may have just single handedly opened up film fans to incredible experiences from all over the world. That, alone, is worth celebrating.
 Load-Date: February 10, 2020

 

End of Document


Second Take: 'Parasite' and 'Joker' handle weighty topic of class divide to different results
Daily Bruin: University of California - Los Angeles
October 16, 2019 Wednesday

 University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 925 words
Byline: Jordan Wilson
Body




Fall releases "Joker" and "Parasite" at first don't seem easy to compare, but a closer examination of their blood-soaked scenes reveals a shared theme beyond deadly violence.
The pairing of "Joker" and "Parasite" seems appropriate when one considers the social commentary woven within the drama of a well-known struggle: low-income survival. The protagonists in each film are living an austere existence, devoid of both physical and emotional security. The films divide themselves in tone and setting; "Joker" is set primarily on the garbage-filled streets of a gritty 1970s-era Gotham City, and "Parasite" is split between a modern posh upper-class Korean house and a basement apartment.
Critics have lauded Todd Phillips' "Joker," based on the DC Comics character, but the film has been mired in controversy over its handling of violence. After its premiere at the Venice Film Festival, many critics praised the story but felt the film irresponsibly portrayed the evolution of its central character from an innocent "nice guy" to a perpetrator of violence. The Joker, a famous Batman villain, has a history of compelling and controversial portrayals, most notably Heath Ledger's in 2008?s "The Dark Knight."
Joaquin Phoenix expertly plays Arthur Fleck, a man dealing with his mental illness, unemployment, the care of his elderly mother and the scorn of a man who might actually be his father: Thomas Wayne, playing a Trump-like businessman running for mayor - not to mention he's also the father of Bruce Wayne. But when Arthur becomes the Joker, he isn't simply a "nice guy" who lashes out at everyone who he thinks has wronged him.
He is an apolitical agent of chaos like his previous incarnations; he doesn't even seem to recognize the social ramifications of his actions as they course through Gotham City. His final assassination of a late night TV host seems motivated more by the potential fame than the desire to incite violent societal resistance. "Joker" is a cautionary tale; in a world where people who need help don't get it, they will demand it with blood.
[Related: Movie review: 'Joker' successfully invites audience into its descent into madness]
The violence of "Parasite," by contrast, is all sharp edges. Its violence is both physically and emotionally cutting; knives are used in favor of guns, which you won't see at all in this Korean drama. Director Bong Joon-ho, known best in North America for his sci-fi drama "Snowpiercer," weaves a tale of sociological duplicity that, for most of the film's run, remains bloodless. The physical violence of "Parasite" is only matched by the emotional upheaval it evokes from the characters.
Both films boil down to a similar argument: Wealthy people have too much, and the rest of society suffers because of it.
The central character of "Parasite" is Ki-woo, a young man who helps his poor Korean family pull the ultimate con on the wealthy Park family by strategically hiring each of his family members to serve the socialites under pseudonyms. Their hoax becomes far from harmless, however, when the Parks' former housekeeper reveals she is sheltering her husband, Geun-se, in the Parks' concealed basement.
When Geun-se escapes the basement and stabs Ki-woo's sister in the middle of an extravagant birthday party, the ensuing violence is just as chaotic as that in "Joker," albeit on a smaller scale. The undercurrent of class conflict percolates when Ki-woo's father, Ki-taek, plunges a knife into the heart of his employer, recognizing that the real enemy was a wealthy man who saw his servants as less than human.
[Related: Second Take: 'Supernatural' leaves its mark on TV culture, coming to an end after 15 years]
So why is the violence of "Joker" so much more controversial than that of "Parasite"? Both films offer biting commentary on wealth inequality and its effect on the lower class. But one story is set in an American city some 40 years ago while the other is contemporary and set in a city most American audiences may not be familiar with.
Perhaps it's the fact that treatment of people of color in "Joker" was ill-reflective: Every interaction Arthur has with a person of color ends with him feeling dejected in some way. Or maybe it's the fact the Joker uses a gun given to him by his co-worker no more than 10 minutes into the film. This access to a deadly weapon seems reflective of the ease of gun ownership in America and plays more like a critical viewpoint than an endorsement of gun violence.
Or maybe it's because "Parasite" does a better job of illustrating the wealth problem as it exists in the world today. Every character in the film is empathetically three-dimensional; even the members of the upper class can respect the professionalism of Ki-taek along with the love Ki-woo's mother is capable of. Arthur, by contrast, is self-centered and focused on his own self-actualization. His view of others depends entirely on how they treat him, not the objective content of their characters.
"Parasite" doesn't punish the wealthy because they're rich. It punishes everyone because every character is at fault for one problem or another. No blood is shed in "Parasite" until the desperation to survive becomes overwhelming, unlike "Joker" where the violence feels like an afterthought. And looking at endings, the Joker got the easier end of the bargain too.
He's locked up in Arkham Asylum giving the staff a hard time, while Ki-woo continues the struggle of his father before him: the never-ending journey of trying to become rich when you can't seem to escape poverty.
 Load-Date: October 17, 2019

 

End of Document


"Parasite": A prickly, disturbing class-war thriller - and a signature film of 2019
Salon.com
October 11, 2019 Friday

 Copyright 2019 Salon.com, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1347 words
Highlight: The latest from filmmaker Bong Joon-ho ("Snowpiercer," "Okja") is a strange and wild ride well worth taking  
Body




Link to Image
It's not easy to identify the protagonist of "Parasite," an intricately layered, darkly comic class-war thriller from Korean director Bong Joon-ho, who is best known in the English-speaking world for the apocalyptic action hit "Snowpiercer." Where your compassion and sympathy fall in this tale of two interlocking families at opposite ends of South Korea's societal pyramid will at least partly be a function of your starting point. Furthermore, it's likely to move around over the course of a deliberately perplexing movie loaded with plot switchbacks, sudden reversals of fortune, moral quandaries, and unexpected revelations. 
In the age of Netflix serials and billion-dollar superhero spectacles, the high-middlebrow cultural zone formerly known as "world cinema" exists mostly as an echo of itself. But there's nothing ghostly about Bong's films, which are vibrant genre mashups, loaded with ideas and lustrously crafted, blending elements from Hitchcock, Tarantino, European art film, and the melodramatic and/or violent traditions of Korean cinema, which remains largely unknown in the West. 
"Parasite" won the Palme d'Or at Cannes this year - which usually means the kiss of death at the American box office - and has already been proclaimed Bong's masterpiece. We'll see about that; no cultural work can be evaluated with that kind of precision right away. (Anyway, I watched "Snowpiercer" again recently: Damn!) At any rate, this is a brilliant and troubling film, sometimes hard as ice and sometimes emotionally wrenching, which could only have been made in this moment yet reaches for timeless allegory.
One plausible protagonist in "Parasite," at least for a while, is Kim Ki-woo (played by Choi Woo-sik), a college-age young man who isn't in college and derisively describes himself as a "loser" in an early conversation with a more affluent friend. Ki-woo seizes a lifeline offered by this friend, who's going off to study in America and suggests that Ki-woo take his job as English tutor for a rich girl. All he needs to do is pretend to be something he's not - in this case, middle-class and educated - and the rest will take care of itself.
Ki-woo is also fond of identifying events in the real world as "metaphorical," with the studied blankness of a young person raised on social media to be both sharply observant and entirely ruthless. When I first saw "Parasite," I thought that running joke was a bit too obvious, but the more I thought about it the more I saw the metaphorical use of "metaphorical" as part of Bong's ingenious design.
On one hand, what happens to the Kim family - who are so poor they literally live underground, in a rancid-smelling, insect-infested apartment just below street level - has the quality of a fairy tale. Ki-woo's magical friend not only gives him a job, and a point of entry into an otherwise inaccessible world of wealth and privilege, but also a traditional stone carving that is supposed to bring prosperity. But on the other hand, all these things are metaphors: The underground apartment, the stinkbugs, the disappearing American friend, the rich princess locked up in a castle, and the stone carving, which brings nothing good to anyone but eventually works its way into the plot, in gruesome and ironic fashion.
Yes, I said there was a princess in a castle. Ki-woo's English-tutor act brings him into the architect-designed hilltop home of the fabulously wealthy Park family, whose teenage daughter, Da-hye (Jung Ziso), is smitten with him immediately. (It's probably no accident that Kim and Park are extremely common Korean surnames; this is roughly like having two Anglophone families called Smith and Johnson.) Da-hye's mother, Yeon-kyo (hilariously portrayed by Jo Yeo-jeong) is herself a castle-princess of the grown-up variety, anesthetized by pharmaceuticals or mental illness or boredom or just too damn much money. 
There are many things in "Parasite," including the perplexing character of Yeon-kyo, that some viewers may wish were better explained. For my money, Bong has a wonderful instinct for just riding over certain obvious plot points, either because he thinks they're not important or he'd just rather let us decide. 
Some reviews have implied, for instance, that the Kim family concocts a deliberate scheme to invade and conquer the Park household, once Ki-woo is through the door. But in fact that's not true - or at least, if such a family plot is hatched, we don't witness it. It just seems to happen that way, like a small-scale parody of the old-fashioned Marxist-Leninist narrative of history: The internal logic of capitalism inevitably leads to class conflict and then revolution and then the dictatorship of the proletariat. Human agency is pretty much irrelevant. 
In the next stage, Ki-woo's teenage sister, the delightfully amoral Ki-jung (Park So-dam) effectively takes over the story, installing herself as "Jessica," the demanding, eccentric art tutor to Da-hye's little brother. Then those two use various dirty tricks to drive away the Park family's chauffeur and, more importantly, the long-serving, long-suffering housekeeper (Lee Jeong-eun) who predates the Parks' arrival and knows more about the house than anyone. (I'm not issuing any spoilers here - but if you have ever seen a thriller featuring an all-knowing housekeeper and suspect she might be important in the third act, you would be correct.)
In those roles, under false pretenses, are inserted the cheerful but defeated patriarch of the Kim clan, Ki-taek (terrific Korean character actor Song Kang-ho, seen in several other Bong films), and his dynamo wife Chung-sook (Hyae Jin Chang), who may be the working-class Lady Macbeth behind this entire scheme. I say may be - as noted above, Bong isn't interested in laying out the whys and hows in granular detail. It's all so metaphorical!
As the title of the film suggests, the Kims almost seem to be obeying the dictates of natural selection: The host organism reveals a weak spot that permits infection; the parasite takes advantage and invades. The Kims feel no malice toward the Parks, at least not at first; a parasite is ruthless and completely self-interested, but not intentionally cruel. After all, if it destroys its host ... well, you know the rest.
But there is an unasked and unanswered question hanging over this film from the beginning, which drives it through various plot twists toward a violent climax: Who or what is the real parasite in this ecosystem? We never find out why Dong-ik (Lee Sun-kyun), husband and father of the Park family, is so rich, and it seems that the Kims neither know nor care. For everyone in "Parasite," the level of inequality that leads one family to live in a walled-off modernist fantasyland, while far below them another family lives in a basement that literally floods with shit (those metaphors again!), is simply the natural order of things. 
In fact, it's less accurate to call the invading Kim family "parasites" then to call them something even less flattering: They are more like mice or roaches, trying to chew off a bit of the Park household's excess cheese without being noticed. But this is where Bong (who co-wrote the screenplay with Jin Won Han) reaches back from metaphor to reality: Ultimately these are not vermin or hostile organisms but human beings, trapped with other human beings in an ecology that rewards mutual cruelty.
You will leave "Parasite" with most of the plot puzzles resolved, but certainly not all. (I have a clear opinion about the source of the smell Dong-ik complains about, but I still don't understand the recurring drunken lout or the significance of the Taiwanese cake shop.) Bong and his two families arrive at an ending that may offer a tiny, distant window of Dostoevsky-style hope, or may be nothing more than fantasy. It isn't an easy ride, and as with life in the non-metaphorical world, the destination is uncertain. You'll see strange and wonderful things along the way. 
"Parasite" is currently in theaters in New York & Los Angeles, and in select cities coming soon.
 Load-Date: April 13, 2020

 

End of Document


A steady hand hard at work; Parasite director's earlier approach in police drama shows same assurance
Woodstock Sentinel-Review
October 23, 2020 Friday
Final Edition

 Copyright 2020 Woodstock Sentinel-Review All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. B6
Length: 524 words
Byline: Chris Knight, Woodstock Sentinel-Review
Body




It's always odd watching an older movie from a well-known director. Sometimes the early film doesn't measure up to whatever new work brought them recognition.
Not so with Memories of Murder. The 2003 film was just the second feature from Korean director Bong Joon Ho, and the first collaboration between him and actor Kang-ho Song. Sixteen years later, their fourth film together would win four Academy Awards including best picture. That was Parasite.
But Memories of Murder, with its razor-sharp editing and tightly wound plot, already shows the hallmarks of a capable, confident filmmaker. The first scene opens in the autumn of 1986 on what looks to be an idyllic farmer's field, with children scampering about. But something is amiss. Detective Park (Kang) arrives to investigate a body that has been stashed in a drainage ditch.
He and Detective Cho (Roe-ha Kim) put their heads together on this and a second murder, and decide a local, intellectually disabled young man is their prime suspect. When a crucial piece of evidence is accidentally destroyed, they simply re-create it as they see fit.
Enter Detective Seo (Sangkyung Kim), sent from Seoul to help crack the case. He confidently announces they're investigating not two murders but three, and points to a recently vanished woman as fitting the same profile as the other victims. Sure enough, her body is found, but the police are no closer to solving the case.
Bong is working from an actual string of murders in his country in the 1980s, and from a play that dramatized them. The timeframe is vital to the story. A further killing takes place during an air-raid drill, still common today but even more so then. Another happens when all the local police are busy putting down a student demonstration. And when the detectives decide to try DNA analysis, they have to send samples to the U.S. since the technology doesn't yet exist in Korea.
Adding to the drama is the mistrust felt by Park and Cho - a real good cop/bad cop team, with Cho's preferred method of interrogation a flying kick to the upper body - toward their urban colleague. Maybe it's the fact that Seo is a vegetarian. Maybe it's that he went to university for four years, while Park only did two, and Cho had four straight years but all of them in Grade 9.
Suffice to say their methods differ drastically - though as time passes, victims pile up and one suspect after another fails to pan out, even Seo starts to lash out in frustration. The actors are truly believable in their roles, as are the minor characters of the hard-drinking chief, and the mostly ignored female officer Kwon, whose habit of listening to the radio in the evenings may yet provide the break they need.
You can look up the true story behind Memories of Murder, which briefly resurfaced in the news last year, but you're better off going into this dramatization with as little information as possible. The less you know, the more powerful will be the film's final scene, a haunting conclusion to an excellent movie, and a promise (already delivered!) of more to come. cknight@postmedia.com !@COPYRIGHT=© 2020 Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.
 Graphic



 
Elevation Pictures; Kang-ho Song, left, and Seo-hie Ko star in the 2003 drama Memories of Murder.; 
 Load-Date: October 23, 2020

 

End of Document


THE REEL: Parasite
Daily Nation (Kenya)
March 6, 2020 Friday

 Copyright 2020 Nation Media Group Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 758 words
Body




Good storytelling leaves you in awe of the storyteller, but great storytelling throws you off balance.
It gnaws at your subconscious as you wonder just how the characters in the story ended up where they were, arouses empathy and might leave you either happy or devastated in the end.
South Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-ho has surely mastered the latter.
Walking into the film, one already knows that its most notable accolade is the glowing review it received from the Academy Award committee.
Parasite became the first foreign-language film to win the Oscar for Best Picture, among four awards it carried home that night.
This did not necessarily guarantee that it would be interesting by all standards, but of course I got curious and decided to judge it myself.
LIVING IN SQUALOR
The movie begins with a family of four living in squalor in a South Korean town, folding pizza boxes in their semi-basement apartment just to get by.
They're lucky to get a filling meal and have to leech off restaurant Wi-Fi just to connect to WhatsApp, and seem to have trouble keeping their phones on.
The state of their home leaves a lot to be desired in terms of hygiene, given its location and of course, the fact that they probably have more to worry about and are lucky to have a roof over their heads.
They commune at the dinner table over beers and food to celebrate "the reconnection of their phones, and this bounteous Wi-Fi," in the words of their father Ki-taek.
Then Ki-woo, his son, has a friend come to visit with two offerings: a job and a "scholar's rock" that promises material wealth to whoever holds it.
The friend, Min-hyuk, is leaving town to study abroad and wants Ki-woo to take over his job as an English tutor to the teenage daughter of the wealthy Park family, Da-hye.
Ki-woo is proficient in English, despite not being a university graduate, so this shouldn't be difficult. Min-hyuk briefly profiles the family, urging his friend to give the job a shot as it could also be his ticket out of the ghetto should he charm Da-hye and marry her once she gets into university.
The movie unfolds as the entire Kim family executes a plan to get jobs within the Park family home as they try to scale up the social and economic ladder.
The most gripping parallels drawn throughout the film involve the abject poverty of the Kims versus the nearly-obscene wealth of the Parks, which makes for an interesting game of the haves and the have nots.
The best strategy (probably character) award without a doubt goes to Ki-woo's sister, Ki-Jung. Thank me later.
DARK COMEDY THRILLER
Parasitedescribes itself as a dark comedy thriller, and it uses these tools to provide sharp social commentary on class disparity in South Korea, perhaps the entire world.
Every scene and prop in the film takes on a life of its own to achieve this, whether it's a peach or a sachet of chilli sauce.
It prompts the classed viewer to take a look at themselves, too; listening to otherwise trivial comments like how grateful the rich are for the rain through the ears of the poor, who dread the rain for how much more difficult life becomes when it falls.
Bong Joon-ho uses his films to highlight societal ills often, and Parasite is no different.
The masterful way he inspires the audience to empathise with the underdogs and how they choose to chase this opportunity at a better life is quite commendable; he manages to create tension in otherwise funny situations and leaves the audience yearning for a great outcome for this family, while drawing resentment for the Parks, who are the typical family they all aspire to be.
All without arousing pity or other dissenting emotions that dehumanise the Kim family.
It also ventures out of the box when it comes to the luxuries that the filthy rich can afford.
While other films and stories might focus on material wealth, Bong uses the luxury of time and planning ahead to show how even the aspirations that society views as basic are not a guarantee when you're not sure what tomorrow holds.
IRONY OF THE FILM
The irony of the film lies in how American and other native English-speaking viewers preferred a dubbed version of it as opposed to the one with subtitles.
In his acceptance speech at the Oscars, Bong commented on this, saying: "Once you overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films."
If you're not one to enjoy films with subtitles, you'll probably miss out on this worthwhile watch. With that, Parasite is a brilliantly executed movie and by all means worthy of its Best Picture Oscar.
 Load-Date: March 6, 2020

 

End of Document


S.Korea's 'Parasite' shortlisted for Oscars' best international film
Global English (Middle East and North Africa Financial Network)
December 16, 2019 Monday

 Copyright 2019 MENAFN.COM All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 545 words
Body




Link to Story
SEOUL, Dec 17 (NNN-YONHAP) — Bong Joon-ho's black comedy "Parasite" was shortlisted for best international feature film at the upcoming Academy Awards, U.S. media reported Tuesday, raising hopes that it might become the first South Korean film to win an Oscar.According to the Hollywood Reporter and other entertainment news media, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) revealed the list of 10 contenders for the category, previously called the best foreign language film, out of 91 films.The nine other films on the shortlist were "The Painted Bird" by Vaclav Marhoul from Czech Republic, "Truth and Justice" by Tanel Toom from Estonia, "Les Miserables" by Ladj Ly from France, "Those Who Remained" by Barnabas Toth from Hungary, "Honeyland" co-directed by Tamara Kotevska and Ljubomir Stefanov from North Macedonia, "Corpus Christi" by Jan Komasa from Poland, "Beanpole" by Kantemir Balagov from Russia, "Atlantics" Mati Diop from Senegal and "Pain and Glory" by Pedro Almodovar from Spain.For the non-English-language movie category, a country submits a single film as their official representative, and the movies vie for five nominations. "Parasite" was selected as South Korea's entry to the best international feature film category in August."Parasite" was also included in the 15-film shortlist of the original song category. 
"A Glass of Soju," lyrics by Bong Joon-ho, will vie for the final nominations with "Speechless" from "Aladdin," "Into The Unknown" from "Frozen II" and "Spirit" from "The Lion King."The final five nominees of each section will be announced on January 13 along with the full nominations for the other categories, and the ceremony is scheduled for February 9 at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron's "Roma" won the title this year.It is the second time that a South Korea-produced movie has made it to the 10-film shortlist, following Lee Chang-dong's "Burning" last year. But Lee's mystery drama failed to be included in the final of the 91st Oscars.For the 92nd Academy Awards, however, "Parasite" is widely considered to be the strongest challenger for best international feature film on a stack of trophies that the movie has collected since May, when it won Cannes' highest prize, the Palme d'Or.It captured three trophies, including best film, from the L.A. Film Critics Association, and took home the awards for best picture, best director and best foreign film at this year's Toronto Film Critics Association Awards. It also won the best foreign language film award from the National Board of Review.The Chicago Film Critics Association gave "Parasite" four prizes, including best picture and best director.It has been nominated in three categories, including best director, for the Golden Globe Awards slated for Jan. 5.For the Academy Awards, it has emerged as a candidate for best picture, best director and best screenplay along with Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," Todd Phillips' "Joker" and Martin Scorsese's "The Irishman."The film is a family satire that depicts the entrenched social class system through the lives of two families, one rich and one poor, with Bong's trademark humor and suspense.-NNN-YONHAPMENAFN1612201902000000ID1099432793
 Load-Date: January 27, 2020

 

End of Document


Parasite For Best Picture
The Brunswickan: University of New Brunswick
February 9, 2020 Sunday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS; Pg. 1
Length: 1064 words
Byline: Jack Sparks
Body




"We need solidarity!" shouts Jimmy Hoffa at a gathering of the Teamsters in The Irishman. "Solidarity! Solidarity!" Hoffa is, of course, talking about the idea of solidarity within a union; of brothers in arms, standing up to their powerful employers. In Parasite, no one screams it out, but it is there, the creeping feeling that the only antidote to the sickening reality displayed in the movie is mass class solidarity. How can some live in palatial opulence when so many live in abject poverty? How can it be that so many live in semi-basements while others live in veritable castles?
These questions are the driving force behind director Bong Joon-ho's newest film, though it's not so new anymore. The South Korean thriller went wide in October in the United States and Canada. So, why exactly am I reviewing it now, almost four months after its release? It just so happens that the Oscars are approaching on February 10, and Parasite was nominated for best picture, becoming the first Korean film to receive that honour.
This review is a plea to the Academy: Parasite is the best picture in a year of fantastic movies. And I really want it to win. I know I shouldn't care about the Oscars-it's an awards show where old white men decide what was best in the year of film, and they're often laughably wrong (Crash over anything else, Driving Miss Daisy over Do the Right Thing, Shakespeare in Love winning due to a rapist's schmoozing, and too many more to mention). Even so, it'd be amazing for a South Korean film with English subtitles to win best picture.
Bong Joon-ho himself said it best in a Vulture article when asked about his movie being the first Korean film to be nominated for best picture: "It's a little strange, but it's not a big deal. The Oscars are not an international film festival. They're very local." He's right, but a man can hope.
Parasite begins by depicting the life of the impoverished Kim family, consisting of the father Ki-taek, mother Chung-sook, daughter Ki-jeong, and son Ki-woo. The film is darkly comedic throughout, but it is especially so at the start; we see Ki-woo on the hunt for a Wi-Fi connection to steal, straining the phone upwards in every corner of the tiny semi-basement dwelling. We see the family folding pizza boxes by the hundreds to make a small amount of money, and Ki-taek stopping his son from closing the window when some sort of pesticide is being sprayed in the street. Free extermination, he says, as the spray seeps into the semi-basement and the family coughs through it and continues to fold.
The true power of Parasite lies in its use of juxtaposition, that greatest of film techniques. Think of Michael Corleone at the baptism of his godson intercut with the heads of the five families and Moe Greene being assassinated on his orders. In Parasite we see the splendor and ease with which the unimaginably wealthy go about their day, intercut with Ki-jeong sitting on top of a toilet seat jettisoning water as their semi-basement floods and they, and innumerable other families, are forced out onto the streets. It is a deft use of craft to sucker punch you with the polar opposite worlds our two main families inhabit.
The film is further elevated by the superb acting throughout, from the Kim family to the wealthy Park family, who we later meet when Ki-woo begins to tutor their daughter on the recommendation of a friend. Speaking again of the Oscars, it's hard not to call it nakedly racist that none of the incredible performances by Asian actors in the film were recognized.
An especially noteworthy performance was given by Song Kang-ho in the role of the father Ki-taek. Throughout the film, we see that Ki-taek is unable to provide for his family as the patriarch, and it is his son's actions that set the integration of the Kim and Park families into motion. Once things start to spiral out of control, Ki-taek plays beautifully his character's descent into what is best described as a serene sort of madness; he listens and internalizes the Park family's remarks on how he smells; he lays on a gym floor with his children after their semi-basement has been flooded; brooding, empty. It is there that his son asks him what the plan he had was to get them out of this situation. It was nothing, he replies. "With no plan, nothing can go wrong."
This is a man who has internalized an unimaginable weight; that of his failure as a father. And even in the end, he still almost throws the car keys to the Park family's father, in what would have been a craven act of submission. Ki-taek has been reduced to a shell of a man. And then, finally, he explodes.
The ending is also incredible. Showing this young man fantasizing about what he has to do to ever see his father again shows how hopelessly he is trapped within the capitalist system that has left his family and millions of other families in ruins. He is forced to play the game, and that's the whole point-the game is fixed from the start. It's so incredibly depressing, while perhaps at first glance being hopeful and optimistic, and that's what makes it so powerful. Joon-ho ostensibly gives you that sense of hope, and then it hits you like a truck as you walk out of the theatre. You believed in the very thing the movie's entire thematic concept has shown to be a horrifying problem. It's the mark of great art that a slight twist of the head can turn the same scene from restorative to dystopic.
Perhaps the best thing about the masterpiece that is Parasite is how timely it is. Tension between rich and poor has existed since the dawn of civilization and many (Marx, Steinbeck, Mike Gold, Walter Greenwood, etc) have written extensively on the idea of the working vs. upper class and of a working class revolution. Yet, it feels fresher than ever. It's even worse around the world, as we see depicted in the film, but we North Americans are also witnessing the rapid disappearance of the middle class-more so in the States. But we as Canadians are ever so concerned and ever so attached to our southern neighbours. It's the exact issue that the elite and powerful don't want people talking about because they also understand the history; they know that revolutions occur when people feel they have nothing to lose. And with the growing divide that exists in our world, maybe the micro plot that plays out in Parasite is more prescient than we may believe.
 Load-Date: February 9, 2020

 

End of Document


'Joker' Will Top the Weekend Again, but 'Parasite' Is the Real Box Office Story
Indiewire Film
October 10, 2019

 Copyright 2019 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 893 words
Body




The upcoming semi-holiday Columbus Day weekend will see three new competitors, none of which are likely to present a serious challenge to the second stanza of "Joker." Ang Lee's "Gemini Man" with Will Smith and the animated "           The Addams Family" are headed for healthy starts, with cellphone-addiction comedy "Jexi" far behind.
More significant this weekend is the platform launch of "Parasite": Not only is it launching a serious awards run, it's also the rare foreign film with breakout potential.
"Joker" Will Set Another Record
The controversial movie grossed $96 million over the weekend, even better than initial estimates of $93.5 million. Monday and Tuesday added another $23.6 million, but this weekend will tell us much more about its appeal: 50% down would give it $48 million, putting this around $185 million in 10 days. That's unprecedented for October.
One Week, Three Original  Releases
While June and July saw a total of just four wide-release original films, we've seen 10 in the last five weeks. "Hustlers," and possibly "Downton Abbey," could reach $100 million, and at least five others will pass $50 million. As with the recent "Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark" and "Good Boys," there has been a healthy return for originals to supplement the franchises. A few weeks ago, "Downton," along with "Ad Astra" and "Rambo: Last Blood," all opened over $19 million - very rare. This weekend, two originals should top $20 million.
Don't Underestimate "Gemini Man" or "The Addams Family"
Ang Lee's "Gemini Man" is the director's latest effort to experiment with higher frame rates, but the real hook is having Will Smith play both a veteran assassin and the 21-year old clone who's pursuing himself. Although Lee has dipped into studio commercial efforts before ("The Hulk"), this is at an extreme end. And while Lee won the Best Director Oscar for "Brokeback Mountain" and for "The Life of Pi," his "Gemini Man" reviews have been terrible. It stands at 36 on Metacritic, and faces the daunting task of recouping a reported cost of over $130 million - about double that of "Joker."
"Gemini Man" it should see $25 million or more for the three-day weekend, and could wind up in third place, behind the animated "The Addams Family Movie." Timing its release with a school holiday and Halloween makes sense. All three "Hotel Transylvania" films opened to over $40 million; don't be surprised if this edges "Gemini."
A Sad Farewell to CBS Films
CBS Films will go out with a whimper: "Jexi" stars Adam DeVine in a comedy about a young man obsessed with his phone. It will likely take in less than $5 million. Directed by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore ("Bad Moms"), it's expected to be the distributor's last theatrical feature as corporate owner CBS transitions to streaming.
CBS Films had a lot going for it. It mostly made original films including "Last Vegas," "Woman in Black," and recently "Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark," as well as specialized releases "Inside Llewellyn Davis" and "At Eternity's End."
"Parasite" Enters the Bloodstream With a Bong
One week after very encouraging initial results for "Pain and Glory" ($152,000 in four theaters, high end of late for subtitled releases), Bong Joon Ho's highly anticipated "Parasite" should easily exceed that; the question is by how much. It could be staggering; it's opening in New York and Los Angeles, in three theaters, and anything much over $80,000 would set a record for a two-city specialized subtitled release.
After winning the Palme D'Or at Cannes, followed by screenings at the Telluride, Toronto, and New York film festivals, it already has multiple sold-out shows at its three locations (IFC Center in Manhattan, Arclight Hollywood and The Landmark in Los Angeles), many of which include Bong Q&As.
Bong gained wider visibility with his English-language "Snowpiercer" and "Okja." This film is set in Korea and taps into the zeitgeist with its story about an impoverished family scamming a wealthy one. It feels more like something Jordan Peele might do than the foreign-language films that typically attract older audiences.
Neon has built a reputation along the lines of A24 in finding edgy titles that expand the specialized audience. Its top release was "I, Tonya," at $30 million; can Neon find similar success here? Too soon to project; we'll get into that, along with the rosy prospects for "Pain and Glory," next week. But this could be the headline coming out of the weekend.
Netflix debuts "The King" and "El Camino"
Success for "Parasite" and "Pain and Glory" would be particularly gratifying as this week sees multiple titles with concurrent or near-term home viewing. Netflix opens "El Camino: Breaking Bad" in more than 125 across the country this weekend, mostly for evening shows - although audiences also have the option of watching it at home. It is the widest Netflix play since "Roma" last year. Still lacking any showings by top national chains, of note is, unlike "Roma", Arclight and the Arizona-based Harkins will screen "El Camino." This could portend openings for "The Irishman" as it struggles to get placement in even 400-500 theaters.
Netflix also has "The King" with Timothee Chalamet and Robert Pattinson in David Michod's historical drama. Its limited release includes Landmark locations in New York and Los Angeles, ahead of its November 1 streaming debut.
 Load-Date: October 10, 2019

 

End of Document


'Parasite' fuels craving for Ram-Don
The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)
February 11, 2020 Tuesday

 Copyright 2020 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved
Length: 1377 words
Byline: By Dave Cathey
Body




[img hash="ad8ab1864049e8b2385b75c8d715e277" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Japchae from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img]Ram-don, that was my takeaway from this year's Oscar darling "Parasite."After swinging and missing at attempts to screen the picture back in October, I made it out last week after the snow. I liked it so much, I took my wife to see it again on Saturday. Ram-don again. Also called Jjapaguri or Jjapaghetti: Ultimately, instant noodles and steak. A marriage of cheap, convenient instant noodles and the king of the protein mountain, steak. It was somewhere in the afterglow of the second screening on Saturday, I received an invite to lunch at Taste of Korea on Sunday.Ram-don!
 Did Taste of Korea Ha have it on the menu? Couldn't remember, so I had to find out. I'd also heard a distressing rumor owner Sun Ha was planning to close Taste of Korea, which I hoped wasn't true.Turns out Taste of Korea doesn't have ram-don on the menu, and it is going to close before the end of the month.Sounds like all bad news, but it's not.The good news is japchae is on the menu, and it's plenty close to ram-don. You've got until Feb. 23 to find out. Furthermore, the closing isn't necessarily permanent. Sun and her husband have an extended vacation to South Korea planned after the lease runs out on the property at the unfortunate location of 5 S Western Ave.When they return from vacation, they'll make a final determination on the future. As for now, they're looking for a new home for Taste of Korea in case the answer is yes to continuing.[img hash="302c56fd6016c50b0aada982875e80a6" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Seafood pajeon from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img][img hash="49bb09b15de57f087d5749ca19bed9ee" width="280" height="" align="left" render="w280" caption="Fried dumplings from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img]Knowing all that made for a sweet Sunday afternoon basking in yaki mandu, haemul pajeon, haemul sundubu jjigae, bibimbap, ojingeo bokkeum, jjamppong, bulgogi, and the aforementioned ram-don alternative japchae.If that seems like a lot of consonant-on-consonant crimes, it is. But the pleasure of eating it is completely guilt-free. [img hash="efbd46b59e67936721e07dc0d712e7d9" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Bulgogi and ojingeo bokkeum from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img]I've eaten pajeon, a crispy seafood pancake, several times at Taste of Korea since it opened back in 2017. Same for the bulgogi (sweet and spicy marinated beef), yaki mandu (fried chicken dumplings) and dolsot bibimbap (a hot pot of rice, vegetables, meat, gochujang chile sauce and egg). Never found any inconsistency in their excellence. [img hash="daf4429bdf3efba44f292aaf0446873d" width="320" height="" align="left" render="w320" caption="Banchan from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img]New to me was ojingeo bokkeum, a stir-fry of squid and vegetables in a spicy sauce. It was a fantastic topping for steamed jasmine rice or just the odd pluck between bites of pajeon. If the pronunciation scares you, go with No. 17.That goes for No. 19, too, also known as haemul jjigae. This bowl of unabashed flavor-joy begins with a broth for the ages, spicy, balanced, addictive. The soft tofu plays like a mild, heart-smart crema and the seafood is magic. Japchae might be more familiar. It's a stir-fry of beef, sweet potato starch noodles and vegetables. About midway through the meal, I wondered aloud if we were generating some good mojo for "Parasite" at the Academy Awards later that evening. Our table certainly hoped so.[img hash="3f0556236e50012c2972b26d25978402" width="280" height="" align="left" render="w280" caption="Soft tofu and seafood soup from Taste of Korea in Oklahoma City. &#91;Dave Cathey/The Oklahoman&#93;" ]22[/img]Though in all honesty, I had no inkling it would actually win. My view of film has become increasingly jaded. I hated it but understood when "Birdman," drew more votes from Academy members than "Boyhood" back in 2015. Of course the Academy related better to a deep-dive into the heart of darkness that is an actor's ego over a simple story about a kid growing up between suburban and rural Texas. But "Green Book"??? How can you not wonder if film has simply devolved into a moderate-risk vehicle for carefully curated and marketed commercial ventures when a film as abjectly average as "Green Book" is even nominated as one of the best handful of films in a year, much less win the award?This year didn't look terribly promising unless you were Quentin Tarantino, who had to think he was the prohibitive favorite on the strength of "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" when all it had to face was the inexplicably nominated "Joker," two films from Netflix and the novel but dull "1917." I adored Greta Gerwig's "Little Women," but found it laughable that the best part of the film (Gerwig's directorial spin on the oft-told tale) didn't get nominated.I kept hearing about how great "Parasite" was but couldn't imagine a foreign horror movie would win Best Picture.[img hash="7cc171410f13557df28e2fc6c691a478" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Cho Yeo-jeong in "Parasite."" ]22[/img]Then I saw the film. About a half hour before it was over, I took advantage of the empty theater to text a friend of mine the following: "Stop whatever you're doing and figure out how you can see 'Parasite' as soon as possible."That text, which I edited to remove one or two curse words sparked by my exuberance, was sent somewhere between the question: "What the hell is ram-don?" and the last time we hear the exclamation "Respect!""Parasite" is why we love going to the movies, a chance to play along with a self-solving puzzle. To reap the satisfaction of the resolution on schedule and on time. Maybe even ahead. Meanwhile, the magic of cinema has always been its ability to transcend that very simple pleasure.[img hash="4df9caacc146fd80984750e2225a7d2e" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Park So-dam and Choi Woo-shik in "Parasite."" ]22[/img]Now that the pleasure of popcorn cinema can be streamed where ever we might be in the world in relation to a cell tower, the job of the theater is harder than ever to offer incentive to get folks to buy a ticket."Parasite" checks every box for going to the theater.If you haven't seen the film, I will tell you It is not a horror film as I first assumed.It's hard to label the film. Maybe a suspense-thriller hiding a kidnapped sociological horror show in the shadows of a stylish dark comedy. Playfully intertwined narratives threaded to the fortunes of a pair of failed pastry chefs seeking relief from debilitating debt through the same opportunity.[img hash="6d73d0cf021a8b04a08dfce238e104f0" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Kang-Ho Song in "Parasite."" ]22[/img]If you want a full-blown review, click here to read a review  from October. But trust me when I tell, once the ram-don is cleaned from the bowl, "Parasite" begins its final reveal.All the while, the film drips with visual cues and style, comedy both broad and razor-sharp, a terrific score, and fiendish performances from a cast who appears to revel in the knowledge audiences will likely wonder what exactly it is they're watching but once they figure it out, they might just think it was the best thing they'd seen all year. Longer, probably.[img hash="4b8b60924e8e317179e63ecd180e87d1" width="" height="" align="center" render="w620" caption="Bong Joon-ho." ]22[/img]Director Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece is an amalgamation of genre's seamlessly tethered to human drama balanced by deliciously off-beat comedy and ruthless tragedy. Would love to believe our pop-up feast at Taste of Korea sent the last dash of mojo needed to send "Parasite" over the line, but I'm happy with the pre-Oscar mojo the meal gave me.  Wouldn't it be nice if we could pass this on to Sun Ha and her family as they prepare to close shop.Very metaphorical, indeed.
 Load-Date: February 13, 2020

 

End of Document


How 'Parasite' Changed What Foreign-Language Films Can Do At the Box Office
Indiewire Film
January 17, 2020

 Copyright 2020 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 1214 words
Body




This week, "Parasite" received six Oscar nominations; this weekend,            Neon will place Bong Joon Ho's film in 843 theaters. Its widest release to date, concurrent with its introduction to home viewing, are timed to improve Oscar odds and maximize the already-stellar performance of the foreign-language arthouse movie.
Full credit goes to Neon cofounders Tom Quinn and Tim League for their smart strategies, but what's also notable is the context of its success. By today's standards, it's a near miracle; at another time, it would have been just another job well done. Here's some perspective on its achievement:
"Parasite" Defied 21st-Century Odds
The last major foreign-language hit was the French comedy "Intouchables," at $10.2 million. Since "Amour" in 2012 ($6.7 million), only Wong Kar Wai's "The Grandmaster" has even grossed $5 million (unless Netflix's unreported "Roma" managed that; it likely came close). Recent successes like "Pain and Glory" ($4 million to date) "Cold War" ($4.6 million) "Shoplifters" ($3.3 million) all fell short.
"Parasite" Won't Break Records
Definition first: The biggest non-English domestic release - by far - is "The Passion of the Christ" (like all upcoming numbers, adjusted to 2020 prices) at $533 million. Other art-house titles that grossed over $100 million include "La Dolce Vita," "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," "Z," "Life Is Beautiful," and "I Am Curious (Yellow)." Titles to pass $50 million include "La Cage aux Folles," "Pan's Labyrinth," "Amelie," "Il Postino," and "Like Water for Chocolate."
The "Parasite" Advantage
First and foremost: Neon was involved with "Parasite" far ahead of its release. When Quinn ran The Weinstein Company's niche label Radius, he worked closely with Bong on his English-language "Snowpiercer" (and fought fiercely with Harvey Weinstein over the film's editing and release.) Neon bought North American rights for "Parasite" shortly after filming wrapped in October 2018, and that long runway was key: It gave the company time to create marketing, strategize distribution plans, identify press and festival opportunities, and conduct audience research. All of that bears little resemblance to subtitled standouts that are acquired at Cannes and, three months later, must hit the ground running at fall festivals.
Then, at a Cannes that featured a stellar lineup ("Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," "Pain and Glory," "A Hidden Life," "Portrait of a Lady on Fire," "Les Miserables," and more) "Parasite" won the top prize. Although Bong was already a well-known and respected filmmaker, that triumph came as a surprise. (It also represented the first time that a Korean director won the Palme d'Or.)
As a director, Bong had another North American advantage over most subtitled filmmakers: His work already reached younger audiences. In addition to "Snowpiercer," he directed Netflix title "Okja" and 2006 horror film "The Host," which was a modest hit ($3.2 million) and as earned cult affection over the years. Even an established European master like Pedro Almodovar doesn't have the same currency. Bong is more like Alfonso Cuaron, who has shifted seamlessly between studio and art-house fare, which brought credibility for "Roma" ahead of most other non-English releases.
A Brilliant Release Plan, Executed Perfectly
Whether studio or specialized, distribution professionals face many choices in releasing a film. For studio distributors, dates are the primary consideration; for specialized, that initial date is only the beginning. Neon's considerations also included a staggered expansion while also considering the pace that would keep it in public view through two sets of holidays and maximize its awards chances as well as overall revenue.
Ahead of this, Neon had to figure out how to integrate the top festivals. "Parasite" played the post-Cannes big three Telluride, Toronto, and New York, which dictated that the earliest it could go was October 11. That's an unusual date for a foreign-language title hoping to sustain a long run. Recent contenders have opened between mid-November and as late as just before New Year's in order to guarantee play during key dates around the height of the awards season. However, that early date proved to be an excellent choice.
The film had a staggering opening weekend of $393,000 in three theaters, the best platform debut of 2019. The theaters had far less demand on that October date, allowing far more capacity than most later dates might have permitted. Another very unusual choice followed: Neon delayed opening at its second New York theater in Lincoln Center. That meant that city's audience had only one theater, and a larger overall per-theater average resulted - as well as more rapturous box-office coverage. That giant total caught the attention of all exhibitors, even those who have limited interest in non-English titles, and gained "Parasite" major entree.
Buoyed by uniformly excellent reviews, and then word of mouth, "Parasite" is a now in week 14 of its run with a nearly $26 million gross. That included six weeks of initial expansion, up to 620 theaters and $15 million. The eight weeks since, with fewer theaters, have added $11 million.
That steadfast performance is almost unheard of, even among top Oscar contenders. Yes, Thanksgiving and Christmas helped once the film sustained enough business to compete during those crowded dates. But the film has ranked between #10-#18 every week since its opening. That further feeds its momentum, especially in Los Angeles and New York. (It was #3 last weekend at the high-end Arclight Hollywood, where it's played since day one.)
At $30 million, it would be second only to "Uncut Gems" (which had a much wider release) among initially platformed specialized releases from 2019 - higher than "Jojo Rabbit," "Judy," "The Farewell," and "Booksmart." Neon's biggest success to date was "I, Tonya," which grossed $30 million.
The Best May Be Yet to Come
Old-school folks might wonder why "Parasite" is starting home availability just as it goes wide. However, the film could end up making more money through these secondary venues than in its theatrical run.
Historically, an independent film with a long run and a high gross will likely will see film rentals of 45% or lower from exhibitors. At $30 million, the distributor will receive about $13 million.
Given the way Neon released the film, and its Oscar nominations, the reality is there are a lot of potential consumers still out there. Outlets like iTunes, Amazon Prime, and VOD provide a far higher return to a distributor than film rental, particularly in later weeks. Distributors are reported to get 65%-70% on streaming/VOD revenues. Prices vary (the initial premium rate is $14.99), but a more standard $6.99 rental times 3 million purchases might return more to Neon than their theatrical take.
All of this goes back to a great hand that Neon played to the hilt. With it comes library value, elevating the company as an even more important go-to distributor, and showing of its finesse to major filmmakers. And beyond Neon, this proves it's possible for subtitled films to reach the highest levels of specialized returns. It might be unique, but it will increase the interest of distributors - and more importantly, of younger audiences.
 Load-Date: January 17, 2020

 

End of Document


How 'Parasite' Changed What Foreign-Language Films Can Do At the Box Office
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
January 17, 2020 Friday 7:05 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1242 words
Byline: Tom Brueggemann
Body




Jan 17, 2020( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  This week, 'Parasite[1]' received six Oscar nominations; this weekend, Neon[2] will place Bong Joon Ho's film in 843 theaters. Its widest release to date, concurrent with its introduction to home viewing, are timed to improve Oscar odds and maximize the already-stellar performance of the foreign-language arthouse movie. Full credit goes to Neon cofounders Tom Quinn and Tim League for their smart strategies, but what's also notable is the context of its success. By today's standards, it's a near miracle; at another time, it would have been just another job well done. 
Here's some perspective on its achievement:'Parasite' Defied 21st-Century OddsThe last major foreign-language hit was the French comedy 'Intouchables,' at $10.2 million. Since 'Amour' in 2012 ($6.7 million), only Wong Kar Wai's 'The Grandmaster' has even grossed $5 million (unless Netflix's unreported 'Roma' managed that; it likely came close). Recent successes like 'Pain and Glory' ($4 million to date) 'Cold War' ($4.6 million) 'Shoplifters' ($3.3 million) all fell short.'Parasite' Won't Break RecordsDefinition first: The biggest non-English domestic release — by far — is 'The Passion of the Christ' (like all upcoming numbers, adjusted to 2020 prices) at $533 million. Other art-house titles that grossed over $100 million include 'La Dolce Vita,' 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,' 'Z,' 'Life Is Beautiful,' and 'I Am Curious (Yellow).' Titles to pass $50 million include 'La Cage aux Folles,' 'Pan's Labyrinth,' 'Amelie,' 'Il Postino,' and 'Like Water for Chocolate.'The 'Parasite' AdvantageFirst and foremost: Neon was involved with 'Parasite' far ahead of its release. When Quinn ran The Weinstein Company's niche label Radius, he worked closely with Bong on his English-language 'Snowpiercer' (and fought fiercely with Harvey Weinstein over the film's editing and release.) Neon bought North American rights for 'Parasite' shortly after filming wrapped in October 2018, and that long runway was key: It gave the company time to create marketing, strategize distribution plans, identify press and festival opportunities, and conduct audience research. All of that bears little resemblance to subtitled standouts that are acquired at Cannes and, three months later, must hit the ground running at fall festivals. Then, at a Cannes that featured a stellar lineup ('Once Upon a Time in Hollywood,' 'Pain and Glory,' 'A Hidden Life,' 'Portrait of a Lady on Fire,' 'Les Miserables,' and more) 'Parasite' won the top prize. Although Bong was already a well-known and respected filmmaker, that triumph came as a surprise. (It also represented the first time that a Korean director won the Palme d'Or.) As a director, Bong had another North American advantage over most subtitled filmmakers: His work already reached younger audiences. In addition to 'Snowpiercer,' he directed Netflix title 'Okja' and 2006 horror film 'The Host,' which was a modest hit ($3.2 million, and then remade in 2013 with Saorise Ronan). Even an established European master like Pedro Almodovar doesn't have the same currency. Bong is more like Alfonso Cuaron, who has shifted seamlessly between studio and art-house fare, which brought credibility for 'Roma' ahead of most other non-English releases.A Brilliant Release Plan, Executed PerfectlyWhether studio or specialized, distribution professionals face many choices in releasing a film. For studio distributors, dates are the primary consideration; for specialized, that initial date is only the beginning. Neon's considerations also includeda staggered expansion while also considering the pace that would keep it in public view through two sets of holidays and maximize its awards chances as well as overall revenue. Ahead of this, Neon had to figure out how to integrate the top festivals. 'Parasite' played the post-Cannes big three Telluride, Toronto, and New York, which dictated that the earliest it could go was October 11. That's an unusual date for a foreign-language title hoping to sustain a long run. Recent contenders have opened between mid-November and as late as just before New Year's in order to guarantee play during key dates around the height of the awards season. However, that early date proved to be an excellent choice. The film had a staggering opening weekend of $393,000 in three theaters, the best platform debut of 2019. The theaters had far less demand on that October date, allowing far more capacity than most later dates might have permitted. Another very unusual choice followed: Neon delayed opening at its second New York theater in Lincoln Center. That meant that city's audience had only one theater, and a larger overall per-theater average resulted — as well as more rapturous box-office coverage. That giant total caught the attention of all exhibitors, even those who have limited interest in non-English titles, and gained 'Parasite' major entree. Buoyed by uniformly excellent reviews, and then word of mouth, 'Parasite' is a now in week 14 of its run with a nearly $26 million gross. That included six weeks of initial expansion, up to 620 theaters and $15 million. The eight weeks since, with fewer theaters, have added $11 million. That steadfast performance is almost unheard of, even among top Oscar contenders. Yes, Thanksgiving and Christmas helped once the film sustained enough business to compete during those crowded dates. But the film has ranked between #10-#18 every week since its opening. That further feeds its momentum, especially in Los Angeles and New York. (It was #3 last weekend at the high-end Arclight Hollywood, where it's played since day one.) At $30 million, it would be second only to 'Uncut Gems' (which had a much wider release) among initially platformed specialized releases from 2019 — higher than 'Jojo Rabbit,' 'Judy,' 'The Farewell,' and 'Booksmart.' Neon's biggest success to date was 'I, Tonya,' which grossed $30 million.The Best May Be Yet to ComeOld-school folks might wonder why 'Parasite' is starting home availability just as it goes wide. However, the film could end up making more money through these secondary venues than in its theatrical run. Historically, an independent film with a long run and a high gross will likely will see film rentals of 45% or lower from exhibitors. At $30 million, the distributor will receive about $13 million. Given the way Neon released the film, and its Oscar nominations, the reality is there are a lot of potential consumers still out there. Outlets like iTunes, Amazon Prime, and VOD provide a far higher return to a distributor than film rental, particularly in later weeks. Distributors are reported to get 65%-70% on streaming/VOD revenues. Prices vary (the initial premium rate is $14.99), but a more standard $6.99 rental times 3 million purchases might return more to Neon than their theatrical take. All of this goes back to a great hand that Neon played to the hilt. With it comes library value, elevating the company as an even more important go-to distributor, and showing of its finesse to major filmmakers. And beyond Neon, this proves it's possible for subtitled films to reach the highest levels of specialized returns. It might be unique, but it will increase the interest of distributors — and more importantly, of younger audiences. [ 1]: https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/neon/ 
 Load-Date: January 17, 2020

 

End of Document


'Joker' Will Top the Weekend Again, But 'Parasite' Is the Real Box Office Story
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
October 10, 2019 Thursday 7:06 PM EST

 Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 961 words
Byline: Tom Brueggemann
Body




Oct 10, 2019( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  The upcoming semi-holiday Columbus Day weekend will see three new competitors, none of which are likely to present a serious challenge to the second stanza of 'Joker.' Ang Lee's 'Gemini Man[1]' with Will Smith and the animated 'The Addams Family[2]' are headed for healthy starts, with cellphone-addiction comedy 'Jexi' far behind. More significant this weekend is the platform launch of 'Parasite[3]': Not only is it launching a serious awards run, it's also the rare foreign film with breakout potential.'Joker' Will Set Another RecordThe controversial movie grossed $96 million over the weekend, even better than initial estimates of $93.5 million. 
Monday and Tuesday added another $23.6 million, but this weekend will tell us much more about its appeal: 50% down would give it $48 million, putting this around $185 million in 10 days. That's unprecedented for October.One Week, Three Original ReleasesWhile June and July saw a total of just four wide-release original films, we've seen 10 in the last five weeks. 'Hustlers,' and possibly 'Downton Abbey,' could reach $100 million, and at least five others will pass $50 million. As with the recent 'Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark' and 'Good Boys,' there has been a healthy return for originals to supplement the franchises. A few weeks ago, 'Downton,' along with 'Ad Astra' and 'Rambo: Last Blood' all opened over $19 million — very rare. This weekend, two originals should top $20 million.Don't Underestimate 'Gemini Man' or 'The Addams Family'Ang Lee's 'Gemini Man' is the director's latest effort to experiment with higher frame rates, but the real hook is having Will Smith play both a veteran assassin and the 21-year old clone who's pursuing himself. Although Lee has dipped into studio commercial efforts before ('The Hulk'), this is at an extreme end. And while Lee won the Best Director Oscar for 'Brokeback Mountain' and for 'The Life of Pi,' his 'Gemini Man' reviews have been terrible. It stands at 36 on Metacritic, and faces the daunting task of recouping a reported cost of over $130 million — about double that of 'Joker.' 'Gemini Man' it should see $25 million or more for the three-day weekend, and could wind up in third place, behind the animated 'The Addams Family Movie.' Timing its release with a school holiday and Halloween makes sense. All three 'Hotel Transylvania' films opened to over $40 million; don't be surprised if this edges 'Gemini.'A Sad Farewell to CBS FilmsCBS Films will go out with a whimper: 'Jexi' stars AdamDeVine in a comedy about a young man obsessed with his phone. It will likely take in less than $5 million. Directed by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore ('Bad Moms'), it's expected to be the distributor's last theatrical feature as corporate owner CBS transitions to streaming. CBS Films had a lot going for it. It mostly made original films including 'Last Vegas,' 'Woman in Black,' and recently 'Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark,' as well as specialized releases 'Inside Llewellyn Davis' and 'At Eternity's End.''Parasite' Enters the Bloodstream With a BongOne week after very encouraging initial results for 'Pain and Glory' ($152,000 in four theaters, high end of late for subtitled releases), Bong Joon-ho's highly anticipated 'Parasite' should easily exceed that; the question is by how much. It could be staggering; it's opening in New York and Los Angeles, in three theaters, and anything much over $80,000 would set a record for a two-city specialized subtitled release. After winning the Palme D'Or at Cannes, followed by screenings at the Telluride, Toronto, and New York film festivals, it already has multiple sold-out shows at its three locations (IFC Center in Manhattan, Arclight Hollywood and The Landmark in Los Angeles), many of which include Bong Q... Bong gained wider visibility with his English-language 'Snowpiercer' and 'Okja.' This film is set in Korea and taps into the zeitgeist with its story about an impoverished family scamming a wealthy one. It feels more like something Jordan Peele might do than the foreign-language films that typically attract older audiences. Neon has built a reputation along the lines of A24 in finding edgy titles that expand the specialized audience. Its top release was 'I, Tonya,' at $30 million; can Neon find similar success here? Too soon to project; we'll get into that, along with the rosy prospects for 'Pain and Glory,' next week. But this could be the headline coming out of the weekend.Netflix debuts 'The King' and 'El Camino'Success for 'Parasite' and 'Pain and Glory' would be particularly gratifying as this week sees multiple titles with concurrent or near-term home viewing. Netflix opens 'El Camino: Breaking Bad' in more than 125 across the country this weekend, mostly for evening shows — although audiences also have the option of watching it at home. It is the widest Netflix play since 'Roma' last year. Still lacking any showings by top national chains, of note is, unlike 'Roma', Arclight and the Arizona-based Harkins will screen 'El Camino.' This could portend openings for 'The Irishman' as it struggles to get placement in even 400-500 theaters. Netflix also has 'The King' with Timothee Chalamet and Robert Pattinson in David Michod's historical drama. Its limited release includes Landmark locations in New York and Los Angeles, ahead of its November 1 streaming debut. Sign Up: Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Email Newsletters here.[4] [ 1]: https://www.indiewire.com/t/gemini-man/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/the-addams-family/ [ 3]:            https://www.indiewire.com/t/parasite/ [ 4]:            http://pages.email.indiewire.com/newslettersignup 
 Load-Date: October 11, 2019

 

End of Document


Oscars Endgame: Unpacking the Final Ads for #8216;1917,' #8216;Parasite,' #8216;Jojo Rabbit' and More
Newstex Blogs 
The Wrap
February 3, 2020 Monday 11:07 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1840 words
Byline: Steve Pond
Body




Feb 03, 2020( The Wrap: http://www.thewrap.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Oscar voting ends on Tuesday, only six days after it began thanks to the earliest-ever edition of the Academy Awards. With less time than ever before to make a final impression, and some awards campaigners are sticking with their ad strategies while others are tweaking the message to lure voters in the homestretch. You used to be able to see these battles waged on billboards along the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood — but since Netflix bought many of those signs, that stretch of road plays more like an indicator of the streaming service's priorities than a real Oscars battleground. Granted, Sony has a billboard for #8216;Little Women,#8217; Warner Bros. 
has one for #8216;Joker#8217; and Disney has used the side of a building that always sports the studio's ads for #8216;Ford v Ferrari#8217; from Fox, which is now owns — but those pale next to the eight Netflix billboards for #8216;The Irishman,#8217; five for #8216;Marriage Story#8217; and two for the documentary #8216;American Factory,#8217; along with single billboards for #8216;The Two Popes,#8217; #8216;I Lost My Body#8217; and #8216;Klaus.#8217; Here's our annual look at who's saying what in an attempt to lure voters at the last minute. Also Read: The Oscars Homestretch: '1917' Is on Top as Voting Begins[1]#8216;Once Upon a Time in Hollywood#8217;Message: This is your movie, Hollywood. Quentin Tarantino's film about a fading TV star (Leonardo DiCaprio), his loyal stuntman (Brad Pitt) and the folks they encounter in 1969 Tinseltown, including Sharon Tate and the Manson Family, has had the biggest Phase 2 makeover, with a brand new slogan that emblazons all of its For Your Consideration ads: #8216;Because you love movies.#8217; Sony has been using that line in advertisements and also emphasizing it via a video feature subtitled #8216;A love letter to making movies.#8217; The message is aimed squarely at the voters who made Best Picture winners out of #8216;The Artist#8217; and #8216;Argo#8217;: If you want to celebrate Hollywood, this is the movie to do it. Of course, there's a secondary message to those shots of DiCaprio and Pitt effortlessly exuding charm that pops off the page: #8216;Because you love movies and because you love Leo #8216;n' Brad, too.#8217;#8216;The Irishman#8217;Message: Because you love movies by Marty. On the surface, the #8216;Irishman#8217; campaign hasn't changed much since the days when the film drew rave reviews out of the New York Film Festival and was considered a Best Picture front-runner. For the most part, the ads use the same still photos, the same dark, somber look and the same emphasis on the three-and-a-half-hour Martin Scorsese film as a landmark. But the emphasis is more and more strongly centered on Scorsese himself, and on positioning the film as a summation of his past work, particularly in the mob genre. One billboard on a prime stretch of Sunset trumpets a quote from Rolling Stone: #8216;Martin Scorsese — America's greatest living director — creates his late-career masterpiece.#8217; And another juxtaposes a photo of Scorsese and star Robert De Niro on the set of the new film with one taken on the set of one of their earliest collaborations from the 1970s. The two photos are separated by a quote from #8216;The Irishman#8217;: #8216;You don't know how fast time goes by until you get there.#8217; In other words: Scorsese is a national treasure, this film is a summation of sorts and the time to honor him is now. In a way, the approach is reminiscent of what The Weinstein Company did with 2002's #8216;Gangs of New York,#8217; promoting it as the career summary for which Scorsese deserved his first Best Director award. (It didn't work then, since #8216;Chicago#8217; won Best Picture and Roman Polanski won Best Director for #8216;The Pianist.#8217;) Also Read: Martin Scorsese's Crime Films Ranked, From 'Boxcar Bertha' to 'The Irishman' (Photos)[2]#8216;Jojo Rabbit#8217;Message: Peace, baby. Apart from #8216;Once Upon a Time in Hollywood,#8217; #8216;Jojo Rabbit#8217; has had the closest thing to a Phase 2 makeover. In many of the ads in the past week, the usual shots from the film, and the usual colorful graphics and lines like #8216;An anti-hate satire,#8217; have been replaced by black-and-white portraits of director Taika Waititi and stars Scarlett Johansson, Roman Griffin Davis and Thomasin McKenzie flashing the peace sign — while ads that include photos from the film often bear slogans like #8216;Never Too Soon for Peace.#8217; While the peace sign had been a staple of #8216;Jojo#8217; ads from the start, the black-and-white photos and starker look drives the message home in a more serious way and positions the film not so much as a sharp, satire but as the gentler, healing drama — the movie everybody can rally behind, because who doesn't want peace? Then again, if you're looking for a more complex message, there's also a new #8216;Jojo#8217; ad that quotes no less than early 20th-century Austrian poet Rainer Maria Rilke (#8216;Let everything happen to you: beauty and terror. Just keep going. No feeling is final.#8217;), who has likely never before been cited while talking about the work of Taika Waititi.#8216;Parasite#8217;Message: Don't you want to make history? The campaign for #8216;Parasite#8217; hasn't changed dramatically, except perhaps to get a little bolder as the film has picked up one guild award after another. But on Facebook, it's hard to avoid the film's reposting of all the rave reviews and the think pieces telling the Academy that they have to give Bong Joon Jo's film the Best Picture award. And on quite a few of those, the same line is used in the intro: #8216;If not now, when?#8217; Clearly, Neon knows that #8216;Parasite#8217; is closer to winning the big award than any non-English film has ever been. And they want the Academy to think about that, and to decide that this is the time to break new ground. Also Read: 3 Reasons Why 'Parasite' Really Could Win Best Picture - And 1 Reason Why It Can't[3]#8216;1917#8217;Message: Join the winning team. Sam Mendes' World War I drama has already picked up many of the key precursor awards on the road to Oscar: the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture #8212; Drama, the Producers Guild and Directors Guild Awards, the BAFTA Award. So increasingly, the message in its ads is a simple one, and one that is aimed at everybody's desire to be on the winning side.#8216;Joker#8217;Message: We are not a comic book movie, dammit. The print ads pretty much look the same, but #8216;Joker#8217; is now drawing its message from something that Joaquin Phoenix said at the Critics' Choice Awards last month about the film's writer and writer-director: #8216;Scott Silver and Todd Phillips, you tricked us. You took a comic-book character and used it to talk about childhood trauma, gun violence, isolation and mental health.#8217; Lines like those are now used to position #8216;Joker#8217; not as the top-grossing film among the Best Picture nominees (by far), but as a serious work about serious issues. That's spelled out in the ads, but most notably in the six different stories in a special 12-page advertorial section in a recent issue of Variety (#8216;Partner Ad Content,#8217; it says on some of the pages). The opening story pretty much lays it on the line, starting with the headline #8216;#8216;Joker' Proves the Power of Empathy#8217; and, in the final paragraph, quoting Mahatma Gandhi: #8216;The true measure of any society can be found in how it treats its most vulnerable members.#8217; (Granted, in this case the vulnerable member of society is one who becomes celebrated when he starts killing people, but still.) Also Read: Director Todd Phillips: 'Joker' Sprang From Concern Over World Without Empathy[4]#8216;Little Women,#8217; #8216;Marriage Story,#8217; #8216;Ford v Ferrari#8217;Message: Don't forget us. The Best Picture chances of these films have largely faded away, so the ads remain straightforward, touting all the Top 10 lists and critical raves, and often focusing on the categories in which the films have the best chance. #8216;Marriage Story#8217; focuses on Laura Dern for Best Supporting Actress. #8216;Little Women#8217; singles out Greta Gerwig's screenplay. #8216;Ford v Ferrari#8217; plays up on the scale that could lead to below-the-line awards: #8216;Big screen moviemaking at its finest,#8217; reads a huge ad for the film covering the side of the building on Sunset. OthersThere's a big battle being waged in the Best Animated Feature category, where rivals have perceived weaknesses in the normally dominant Pixar (which has #8216;Toy Story 4#8217;) and Disney (which wasn't even nominated for #8216;Frozen II#8217;). DreamWorks Animation has been aggressively advertising #8216;How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World,#8217; Netflix is of course touting #8216;Klaus#8217; and #8216;I Lost My Body#8217; and Laika/Universal have been particularly active with ad buys on behalf of #8216;Missing Link.#8217; At the top of one recent #8216;Missing Link#8217; ad was a list of the other Laika films nominated in the category (#8216;Coraline,#8217; #8216;ParaNorman,#8217; #8216;The Boxtrolls#8217; and #8216;Kubo and the Two Strings#8217;) along with a quote: #8216;#8216;Missing Link' is the fifth Laika film to be nominated and is now the most nominated studio without a win.#8217; That final phrase was in extra-big type. There has also been a last-minute flurry of ads in the documentary feature race (#8216;American Factory#8217; v. #8216;The Cave#8217; v. #8216;The Edge of Democracy#8217; v. #8216;For Sama,#8217; with #8216;Honeyland#8217; taking out fewer ads but getting extra attention because it's also nominated for Best International Feature Film). And in the competition for Best Original Song, ads for #8216;Harriet#8217; all tout its nominated song while the songs from Diane Warren (#8216;Breakthrough#8217;) and from Elton John and Bernie Taupin (#8216;Rocketman#8217;) have also been visible. Related stories from TheWrap: Oscars' Streaming Site Goes Down One Day Before Voting Ends[5]'1917' Composer Thomas Newman on Cousin Randy and Growing Up in Oscars' Most Nominated Family[6]The Oscars Homestretch: '1917' Is on Top as Voting Begins[7] [ 1]: https://www.thewrap.com/the-oscars-homestretch-1917-is-on-top-as-voting-begins/ [ 2]:            https://www.thewrap.com/martin-scorseses-crime-films-ranked-photos/ [ 3]:            https://www.thewrap.com/3-reasons-why-parasite-really-could-win-best-picture-and-1-reason-why-it-cant/ [ 4]:            https://www.thewrap.com/director-todd-phillips-joker-sprang-from-concern-over-world-without-empathy/ [ 5]:            https://www.thewrap.com/oscars-streaming-site-goes-down-one-day-before-voting-ends/ [ 6]:            https://www.thewrap.com/newman-oscar-most-nominated-family-composer-thomas-randy/ [ 7]:            https://www.thewrap.com/the-oscars-homestretch-1917-is-on-top-as-voting-begins/ 
 Load-Date: February 4, 2020

 

End of Document


Notes On The Season: Upsets Looming For The Race? 'Parasite' On The Rise; The Return Of Oscar Legend Sacheen Littlefeather
Deadline
December 27, 2019

 Copyright 2019 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 2414 words
Body




A column chronicling events and conversations on the awards circuit.
Lots of questions this week as Christmas Day has come and gone and we are just six days away from Oscar ballots going live. Are there upsets looming in a year that has become wildly unpredictable as to which way the Oscar winds may be blowing? We will have a much better idea by the point that the two-week holiday break is officially over. In that time the Palm Springs International Film Festival will have handed out its ginormous trophies, AFI will have had its awards luncheon, and the Golden Globes will be history. Just one day after everyone is officially back at their desks (if they take the whole New Years weekend) those Oscar ballots will be due on January 7th, and it is still a mystery just how many members will actually have caught up on all the films and what kind of turnout the Academy can create with its constant reminders to members.
One storied Oscar winning actress told me she was "blown away" by Parasite, and has seen The Joker twice just to see Joaquin Phoenix give what she considers to be one of the greatest, and in her words, inspiring performances she has ever witnessed. She still has to catch up however on a number of movies including Marriage Story she says she has yet to see even once yet. A former Academy officer and veteran of several dozen movies emailed me to say, "just saw the best film by far. By far the best film. In every category!" He was referring to 1917. A Best Actor nominee from last year concurs and also mentioned that movie as the one that has impressed him the most. Another Oscar voter, who touts Ford v Ferrari as a personal favorite though told me he admires 1917 from a technical POV, but wanted more emotion.It finally opened in limited release on Christmas so now the public gets to weigh in as well, but Universal had those screeners for the Sam Mendes film out there as quickly as they could.
Surprisingly so did Disney for their box office behemoth, Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, even sending to the Producers Guild and others before the film had officially opened on December 20, an unusual move for a blockbuster in danger of being pirated, and one that isn't topping any pundits list of likely Best Picture nominees, but the PGA is known for bucking the trend and occasionally throwing a bone the money makers. This week the Writers Guild got a digital copy in their inboxes. On Christmas Disney even took a full page ad in the LA Times (in between a bunch of Netflix ads) asking for consideration in Best Picture, perhaps sensing, or hoping, the Best Picture picture is still a little unsettled. However no Star Wars movie has achieved that feat since the first one in 1977, but they Disney is praying what is being labeled as the last in the nine film series will buck the trend despite middling reviews. Avengers: Endgame is in the same yacht, big moneymakers for the Mouse House but longshots for Oscar. Disney's best bets are the aforementioned Ford v Ferrari and Jojo Rabbit which they inherited in the Fox buy.
As for Netflix they are not leaving anything to chance, particularly in efforts for The Irishman, which would seem to be a safe bet for numerous nominations including Best Picture, but right now is a little shaky in the Best Actor category for title star Robert De Niro who failed to grab SAG or Golden Globe nominations for his performance. I have heard those snubs batted away by explaining SAG is already giving him the Life Achievement Award this year so no need for a Lead Actor nod, and that the HFPA still hasn't gotten over De Niro jokingly suggesting during his Cecil B. DeMille acceptance speech in 2011 that some Globes voters could be "deported". The only problem with the latter theory is he was actually Globe-nominated for his TV role in The Wizard Of Lies just two years ago. At any rate to further solidify De Niro support the streamer is launching an American Cinematheque series that starts with a 45 minute conversation between De Niro and his long time collaborator            Martin Scorsese followed by an Irishman screening at the Egyptian. Then for the remainder of January they will have a matinee retrospective at the Aero Theatre called "The Films Of Marty And Bob", featuring all eight of their previous films together beginning with 1973's Mean Streets. By the way the Cinematheque is changing a steep $40 for general admission ($30 for members) just to get into the conversation on the 4th, the highest admission price I can ever recall them charging for anything. 
The Best Actor race is easily the most competitive, thus the worry that De Niro's terrific but low key portrayal could get lost in the crowd. There are at least ten viable nominees, but only five slots. I can see five worthy actors being left out in the cold with no nomination, when in another year they might have even won. Netflix alone could almost fill the category with De Niro, Adam Driver, Jonathan Pryce, and Eddie Murphy who after his acclaimed and highly rated return to host Saturday Night Live last weekend has renewed momentum in the race, one that could bring him his first- ever Leading Actor Oscar nomination for Dolemite Is My Name. He was nominated just once previously in the supporting category for Dreamgirls in 2006 but lost to Alan Arkin in Little Miss Sunshine. He won his only Golden Globe for that performance, and is a good bet to take a second career Globe win on January 5th in the Lead Actor Comedy or Musical category if he can get by another GG favorite, twelve-time nominee and three time winner Leonardo DiCaprio. The Globes are likely to be spread all over the place, but you can bet the farm that DiCaprio's film, Once Upon A Time In Hollywood takes Best Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and his co-star Brad Pitt wins Best Supporting Actor. And could Netflix's own The Two Popes upset their The Irishman in Best Motion Picture -Drama ? The film, which received four nominations, might seem a long shot but talk to any Hollywood Foreign Press member and you will see how much they loved it. It reminds me of last year when they went their own way being an early adopter of Green Book and Bohemian Rhapsody, two films they also just loved. Don't be surprised if the HFPA gets a little religion this year in what could be a shocker.
CAN ADAM SANDLER GET RESPECT?
The other day I was interviewing Adam Sandler at a Q&A in Century City for his latest film, Uncut Gems, and I asked him how it felt to be in a film that is winning him so much acclaim and awards recognition. "What does it feel? Uh, new, " he laughed, but as the New York diamond merchant in the Safdie Brothers indie hit, he has won the National Board Of Review Best Actor prize, several other nominations and critics awards, as well as a nomination for Best Actor at the Critics Choice Awards on January 12. The film has opened exceptionally well at the box office and that could help drive Oscar voter interest in checking it out despite Sandler's omission at the Globes and SAG. Again it is an extremely crowded category to break into but there is already evidence of that happening for the Uncut Gems star. Sandler tells the story of getting a personal call from none other than three- time Best Actor winner Daniel Day Lewis who rang him up just to wax rhapsodic on Adam's performance,the kind of high wire acting tour de force other actors love. If enough of them do, then he could squeeze in, and alas squeeze the likes of De Niro or Murphy out. This is why Oscar consultants get ulcers.
WILL 'PARASITE' INVADE THE OSCAR HISTORY BOOKS?
The Cannes Film Festival has taken its hits over recent years in being a dangerous place to debut a potential Oscar Best Picture contender, just because May is awfully early to unveil your goods and the chance of getting a negative response is just too great to take. Only films like Spike Lee's BlackKlansman, Paramount's Rocketman, and this year's potential Oscar juggernaut Once Upon A Time In Hollywood seem to be bucking the trend of waiting for the Fall Film Festivals instead, and that is only because all were summer releases making Cannes a natural stop as part of a worldwide publicity campaign. This year just might be different, and it could even make history. There is clearly a Parasite invading the Oscar race and based on numerous conversations I have been having lately, this South Korean worldwide hit just might have the stuff to become the first foreign language film to actually go all the way and win Best Picture. Not only would that be a first in Oscar history, it would also mark only the second time the winner of the Palme d'Or in Cannes matched Oscar's Best Picture champ. The only other example was in 1955, the first year when both prizes existed at the same time and Marty won both. It has never happened since, even if it looked for a minute as if Roman Polanski's Palme d'Or winning The Pianist was about to pull off a Best Pic upset against Chicago in 2002. Can Bong Joon Ho's masterpiece, which opened in North America in October, finally do the trick? We will know in just a few weeks. At any rate the one great consistency of Cannes has been in influencing the eventual nominees for Best Foreign Language Film, now newly renamed Best International Film. This year no less than half of the shortlisted ten finalists to become one of the five eventual nominees first debuted in Cannes, and of course one of them is Parasite.
IS SACHEEN LITTLEFEATHER COMING BACK TO THE            OSCARS
For those who love dabbling in Oscar history like I do, the name Sacheen Littlefeather is indelibly planted in our heads. She of course became infamous as the young Native American woman Marlon Brando sent to the 1973 Academy Awards ceremony to get on stage and refuse his Best Actor Oscar for The Godfather. Last month she won several honors, including the newly created Brando Award, for a short film about her life at the Red Nation International Film Festival's 24th Annual Awards Ceremony, an event put on by the Red Nation Celebration Institute to shine a light on the kinds of achievements by American Indian and Indigenous voicess that struggle to find attention in the mainstream media. Among others who attended were Hostiles director Scott Cooper and his star Christian Bale (they presented to their Native American consultant on the film). Littlefeather's film is a 25 minute short called Sacheen: Breaking The Silence from writer/director Peter Spirer, and in it Littlefeather (birth name: Maria Cruz) provides an on-screen account of her involvement with Brando and how she came to command the attention of the world and the one billion viewers of the Academy Awards by delivering his message about the misrepresentation of Native Americans in Hollywood films. It is a compelling and moving account of her life, but focuses on the part of it that made this actress who had appeared in small roles in movies like Freebie And The Bean and The Trial Of Billy Jack an instant household name and answer to one of the great all-time Oscar trivia questions.
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences gave permission for the footage of the ceremony and the film is a fascinating and detailed account of what happened from the moment she was invited to Brando's for dinner all the way to the reprecussions of her appearance on the Oscar stage, one that led to what she calls her "redlisting" in Hollywood films and eventually to a different kind of life in which she worked with Mother Theresa among others. She says she was accused of being a "Mexican actress" who wore a costume that night, among other indignities this Native American performer was falsely accused of. In the film she gives exacting detail regarding how it all came down. At dinner at his house Brando made her wait while he wrote an 8 page speech he expected her to read on stage, informing her she was not to touch the Oscar if the presenters (Roger Moore and Liv Ullmann) tried to hand it to her. Show producer Howard W. Koch confronted her beforehand and said she could not read the speech and had only 60 seconds or would be tossed out, so she eventually improvised it, giving Brando's intentions. She talks about being booed by portions of the audience, and how the press treated her backstage. In one great segment, decades later the film chronicles her actual meeting at a book signing with Ullmann who is stunned when she reveals their one-time connection on the Oscars. Littlefeather who says her favorite filmmaker has always been Ingman Bergman was obsessed in knowing what the great Swedish director thought about that night. Ullmann says he loved it.
The strange bedfellows Oscar history makes is what makes the show unique unto itself. Oscar and Littlefeather are inextricably tied together, and she is very eloquent in telling how.In the film the 73 year old reveals she has been given a terminal fourth stage cancer diagnosis but chooses to live each day knowing she had done some good with her life, and in the case of the Oscars that was getting the message of treatment of Native Americans out to an audience that never would have heard it otherwise. The same goes for this film which is looking for distribution. Joanelle Romero is founder and CEO of RNCI is a member of AMPAS and is still the only Native American filmmaker to be shortlisted in the Documentary Short Branch for her 2000 film American Holocaust: When It's All Over I'll Still Be Indian. She will be showcasing 23 films at the Native Women In Film festival the week of the Oscars on Feb 5 and 6 in Beverly Hills, and Sacheen will be one of them. She is also hoping to get the Red Nation fest to be an Oscar-Qualifying festival where these movies will have a better chance of getting recognition, at least on shortlists, at the Academy Awards. Certainly AMPAS, which has only awarded two Oscars to Native Americans in its history to songwriter Buffy Sainte Marie for Best Song in 1983 and an Honorary Award this year to actor Wes Studi, should be interested considering their much talked-about push for diversity. Who knows? Maybe Sacheen Littlefeather has one more Oscar ceremony in her, this time accepting for herself.
More from Deadline
Martin Scorsese's Daughter Trolls Him With Marvel-Themed Christmas Wrapping Paper           Bill Cosby Rep Hits Back At Eddie Murphy Over 'Saturday Night Live' Dig, Calls Him "Hollywood Slave"           Eddie Murphy's Return Delivers Big Ratings For 'Saturday Night Live'
 Load-Date: December 27, 2019

 

End of Document


The world's love for 'Parasite' and what it holds for the future of global cinema
The Daily Campus: University of Connecticut
January 30, 2020 Thursday

 University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 1
Length: 586 words
Byline: Esther Ju
Body




Kang-Ho Song, from left, Jang Hye-jin, Park So-dam, Lee Sun Gyun, and Choi Woo-shik, winners of the award for outstanding performance by a cast in a motion picture for "Parasite" attend the 2020 PEOPLE SAG Awards Afterparty at the Shrine Auditorium & Expo Hall on Sunday, Jan. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Colin Young-Wolf/Invision for PEOPLE Magazine/AP Images)
Over the course of three months, I have heard the same buzz from friends and family regarding Bong Joon-ho's latest release, "Parasite," with most calling it a masterpiece. It wasn't a film I was determined to see, despite being bombarded by constant statements validating its greatness. It wasn't until its Academy Award nomination for Best Picture that I finally felt required to see it.
Just like every review, article and opinion I've heard, I agree that "Parasite" is indeed a good movie. However, it wasn't just the performances of the cast or the cinematography that caused even the most rigid film buffs to cite it as one of their all-time favorite movies. Instead, it was the commentary behind every action of the film that seemed to draw the favorable attention of audiences and create the perfect unity that every decent movie hopes to achieve.
There are many different interpretations of the film's title. I interpret it through the actions of the Kim family, acting like parasites by latching onto the wealthy lifestyle of the Park family by acquiring jobs as their daughter's tutor, their son's art therapist, their driver and their housekeeper. It essentially creates an image of the poor eating the rich, providing an interesting commentary on social class.
The unusual decision to portray the rich as gullible and helpless was not only a smart method of grabbing the audience's attention but also a plot device that I had not seen before. Seeing how the street smarts of the Kim family eventually help them infiltrate the ever-trusting Parks' home provides a refreshing statement about the assumptions we develop about the lower class. It says that formal education is not everything and most need to struggle to survive.
"Parasite" has acquired numerous accolades, including a Critics' Choice Award for Best Director and a Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film among many others. Its immense popularity has proven to be a major turning point in cinema, as it brings an open-minded attitude toward film culture.
A rise in global perspective is an important aspect of cinema that we should all be aware of and become accustomed to. "Parasite" is the 11th foreign film ever nominated for Best Picture in Academy history, none of which have won, but many believe it has a fair shot of winning. Milestones like this are a first step towards international film acceptance and recognizing the talents of filmmakers around the globe.
"Parasite" being nominated not only brings opportunity for global perspective, but also a potential solution for lack of diversity. Diversity in Hollywood has been a constant controversial topic that has become noticeably prominent in recent years. The release of Bong's film helps fill that gap and opens doors for other international directors as well as diverse casts featured in other international films.
Like others who have seen this film, I have not hesitated in recommending this movie to everyone. However, numerous friends of mine simply refuse to watch foreign films because they hate reading subtitles and assume they won't understand it. I guess they'll never know what they're missing.
 Load-Date: January 30, 2020

 

End of Document


'Joker,' 'Parasite,' '1917,' 'Little Women' land WGA noms; 'Joker,' 'Parasite,' '1917,' 'Little Women' land WGA noms
Canadian Press
January 6, 2020 Monday 02:16 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 The Canadian Press All Rights Reserved
 
Section: INTERNATIONAL
Length: 371 words
Byline: Jake Coyle, The Associated Press
Body




NEW YORK - Sam Mendes' World War I tale "1917" followed up its big night at the Golden Globes with a nomination for best screenplay from the Writers Guild on Monday.
Alongside "1917," the writers guild nominated for best original screenplay the scripts to "Booksmart," "Knives Out," "Marriage Story" and "Parasite."
In the adapted screenplay category, the guild selected "A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood," "The Irishman," "Jojo Rabbit," "Joker" and "Little Women."
A handful of contenders weren't eligible because the Writers Guild only rewards films produced under a WGA contract. Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood," which won best screenplay Sunday at the Globes, was ineligible. (Tarantino years ago refused to join the guild after a dispute over crediting on Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers.") Also out of the running were "The Farewell" and "Pain and Glory."
Because of those exceptions, the WGA Awards don't always predict Oscar nominees. But their choices otherwise largely overlap with eventual Academy Awards nominees.
That's good news for nominees like Greta Gerwig's Louisa May Alcott adaptation "Little Women," which has struggled to find traction in awards season despite rave reviews and strong box office. Bong Joon Ho's thriller "Parasite," which also received a best ensemble nomination from the Screen Actors Guild, also continues to look like a rare foreign language Oscar heavyweight.
The nomination for "1917," a movie most celebrated as a visual achievement, suggests the film is resonating outside of technical categories. In an upset on Sunday, Mendes' film won best drama and best director at the Globes. It's the first script the British director has written, penned with Krysty Wilson-Cairns.
While a number of front-runners like Noah Baumbach's "Marriage Story," "The Irishman" (written by Steven Zaillian) and Taika Waititi's "Jojo Rabbit" were predictably selected by the WGA, the guild also chose a handful of genre movies including the teen comedy "Booksmart" and Rian Johnson's whodunit "Knives Out."
The awards will be presented on Feb. 1 in concurrent ceremonies in Los Angeles and New York. On Tuesday, the Directors Guild and the Producers Guild announce their nominees.
 Load-Date: January 8, 2020

 

End of Document


Constantin's Martin Moszkowicz on the Berlin Market, Platforms, Theatrical and TV, and 'Parasite'
Variety
February 23, 2020

 Copyright 2020 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 985 words
Body




BERLIN - News on the first day of the Berlin Festival that film - read Constantin Film  - had helped drive a 2019 full year profits surge at parent Highlight Communications came as little surprise. Few European movie companies enjoy the robust health of Constantin Film.Oliver Berben's presentation on Monday of Constantin Television's lineup and production philosophy at the Berlinale Series Market is a reminder that Constantin Film not only has some of the most ambitious movie productions coming out of Europe - think Paul W.S. Anderson's upcoming "Monster Hunter" - but now fires ever more on multiple powerful cylinders. Few senior executives in Europe are in a more privileged position to survey the ever evolving landscape of content production than Martin Moszkowicz, Constantin Film chairman of the executive board and one of the great analysts of bigger company bigger picture dynamics.
In the final build-up to the 70th Berlin Festival, he fielded questions on how the Berlin market was shaping up, twinning theatrical and TV, platforms' movie interest, the future of theatrical, and the "Parasite" effect:
How has this market changed in recent years? What does that mean for you, and what role does Berlin play for Constantin?
These days U.S. studios hardly ever do deals just for domestic. Markets are going to focus on lower-budgeted or smaller, niche-type movies.
But there is also so much more to Berlin than just the competition and the market. For us, as a German company, Berlin is the most important festival of the year. We take a group of 40 people, and there's always so much happening: political meetings, industry presentations, networking events and more. So, for us these 10 days are huge in general, and for our company we use it to present ourselves, to buy product if there is any, sell our Films and to talk with friends from all over the world and to network. So, for me the importance of Berlin is unquestionable. Some years the market is better, some years not so. But overall, we try to look at it with an open mind. We don't go in with a quota we want to fill, we look at films on a case by case basis.
Some predicted streaming platforms as the death of brick and mortar cinema, but would you agree?
You can see in the numbers that successful theatrical movies, once they go to the platforms, do better than everything else. I think it's always important to take a bird's eye view, where you see the whole market and what it means. I don't see this Armageddon that some people have been predicting; it's just changing. I don't remember a year, in whatever 40-something years that I've been in the business, that there were no changes. There's always something. When DVD came out everybody said: "Oh my God, everybody is going to watch on DVD, nobody will go go to the movies anymore." For nearly a hundred years people have been predicting the end of the film industry, and it's not happened yet, and it's not going to happen. On the contrary - movies are alive and kicking...
Are new platforms as interested in films as they are in series?
They are interested in both, I must say. There is still definite interest in 100-minute, feature film-type stories. All the services have this problem of series taking up so much of their users' time that people are sometimes hesitant to get into a series that requires so much commitment. So sometimes shorter and more marketable one-time events are preferable. The streamers are all in the business of building their platforms. They aren't interested in one specific thing being a big hit. They are interested in getting more subscribers. They are looking for things that make the platform marketable. They want to reach quadrants they don't already have.
How has that impacted the way producers work?
No company does only theatrical or only TV. Everyone, to some degree, does both. Most producers mix movies and TV. There's more demand, and we're billing that, as are most creatives, writers, directors, below the line. They're all busy, all over Europe, probably the world.
And one way to find potential subscribers is to get high profile content with big media coverage.
Absolutely. Look at "The Irishman." It's not one of Scorsese's best films. But the attention it got with cast and director was outstanding. I think that's what they were aiming at. So that worked out for Netflix. They wanted to make a splash and make a film no studio would touch, and I think that's great!
The success of a film like "Parasite" - Could that signal a renaissance of accessible, slightly bigger art films?
I'm not sure if it can be viewed as a blueprint. With "Parasite" you have an outstandingly talented group of artists led by one of the great directors of our time. I'm not sure there are many like him out there who can do similar things. Although I'm sure some will try. I think "Parasite" is singular in terms of pure talent and creativity. I'm not saying it's impossible for others to do the same, but you cannot just use it as a blueprint and repeat it. It's so dependent on execution. Without a brilliant director and his team, I'm not sure the same story could have turned out so well.
It's fantastic for our business though. I think it's great the Academy Awards selected it. I was not one of those who thought it could win. You hear people say it's because they there are more Academy members from other countries it will keep being more international, and I say that's a good thing in general. But I don't think you can say because of "Parasite" every country will suddenly do huge, high-concept arthouse movies. Good directors will always get their movies made, and there are a handful of the same stature as Bong Joon Ho, and they will get things done.
More from Variety
Europe-China Co-Prod 'The Italian Recipe' Immune to Coronavirus (EXCLUSIVE)           'Persian Lessons': Film Review           Beta Cinema Celebrates 'Karnawal' (EXCLUSIVE)
 Load-Date: February 23, 2020

 

End of Document


What’s on TV Wednesday: ‘Parasite’ and ‘Modern Family’
The New York Times 
April 8, 2020 Wednesday 01:00 EST

 Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS; television
Length: 554 words
Byline: Gabe Cohn
Highlight: “Parasite” hits Hulu. And “Modern Family” airs its final episode on ABC.  
Body




“Parasite” hits Hulu. And “Modern Family” airs its final episode on ABC.
What’s Streaming
PARASITE (2019) Stream on Hulu; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. The South Korean filmmaker Bong Joon Ho won an armful of Oscars for “Parasite,” a comedic thriller that this year became the first film not in English to earn the Academy Award for best picture. The movie takes aim at social stratification: Set in South Korea, it centers on a poor family whose members begin working for a wealthy one. Their story, first comic, then shocking, involves tutoring, deception and pizza. In her review for The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the film “brilliant and deeply unsettling.” She wrote that Bong “creates specific spaces and faces — outer seamlessly meets inner here — that are in service to universal ideas about human dignity, class, life itself.”
THE KILLING OF A SACRED DEER (2017) Stream on Netflix; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. For another whirligig story in which a well-off family’s life is upended, see this stylized thriller from the Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos. Nicole Kidman and Colin Farrell star as married doctors whose world is rattled by a young man named Martin (Barry Keoghan), who seeks revenge for an incident that happened years before. Lanthimos “is less interested in moral shock therapy or social criticism than in aesthetic estrangement,” A.O. Scott wrote in his review for The Times. “‘Sacred Deer’ feels like a dark, opaque bit of folklore transplanted into an off-kilter modern setting.”
ONWARD (2020) Stream on Disney Plus; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. Two elves trade the quiet, suburban life for an epic quest in “Onward,” the latest offering from Pixar. Those elves — Ian (voiced by Tom Holland) and Barley (Chris Pratt) — are brothers living in a post-fantasy world, where magic has been largely supplanted by technology. When their mother (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) gives them an enchanted staff that has the power to bring their dead father back to life (for a limited time only), the pair jump at the opportunity. The spell only half-works: They manage to summon their dad, but only from the hips down. Bringing back his upper half will require them to trek through their land of pixies and other mythical creatures in search of more magic. “Ian and Barley’s journey plays as disappointingly routine, a checklist of mechanically foreshadowed heart-to-hearts and lessons learned, leavened by the occasional offbeat sight gag,” Ben Kenigsberg wrote in his review for The Times. Still, Kenigsberg wrote, the filmmakers “have clearly had fun imagining a milieu with belligerent biker sprites and cops who are centaurs or Cyclopes.”
What’s on TV
MODERN FAMILY 9 p.m. on ABC. After 11 seasons, Christopher Lloyd and Steven Levitan’s three-family sitcom will come to a close, with an hourlong series finale. Before that, at 8 p.m., ABC will air “A Modern Farewell,” a documentary about the show’s behind-the-scenes life. The fact that the show is itself a mockumentary should make that documentary feel quite meta.
PHOTOS: Cho Yeo Jeong in “Parasite.” (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEON); Ian, left, and Barley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY/PIXAR); Eric Stonestreet, left, and Jesse Tyler Ferguson in “Modern Family.” (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONNIE OSBORNE/ABC)
 Load-Date: July 14, 2020

 

End of Document


‘Parasite’ to be adapted for HBO TV series
New Musical Express
January 10, 2020 Friday

 Copyright 2020 Bandlab UK Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 222 words
Byline: Charlotte Krol
Body




The award-winning film Parasite is reportedly close to being signed off by HBO for a limited series. 
Bong Joon-ho, who wrote and directed the acclaimed horror-action film, is teaming up with Adam McKay (The Big Short, Vice, Succession) for a limited series. According to The Hollywood Reporter, a deal has not yet been done but HBO came out on top following a fierce bidding war with Netflix for the rights. 
Last week Parasite took home the Golden Globe for best motion picture in a foreign language. The Korean film won the 2019 Palme d’Or and is tipped for an Oscar. Bong Joon-Ho
The film follows a family who embed themselves into the lives of their wealthy employers before things turn deadly. 
It’s unclear if the limited series will be a follow-up to the movie or an English-language remake. Joon-ho and Adam McKay will both executive produce the series. 
In other news, Joon-ho has said he’d never direct a Marvel movie because he can’t get on board with the “tight-fitting” costumes.. 
“I have a personal problem,” he told Variety. “I respect the creativity that goes into superhero films, but in real life and in movies, I can’t stand people wearing tight-fitting clothes. 
The post ‘Parasite’ to be adapted for HBO TV series appeared first on            NME Music News, Reviews, Videos, Galleries, Tickets and Blogs | NME.COM. 
 Load-Date: April 14, 2020

 

End of Document


'Parasite' filming locations trending after Oscars win
Korea News Gazette
February 11, 2020 Tuesday

 Copyright 2020 Korea News Gazette All Rights Reserved
Length: 421 words
Body




 11 February 2020 (Yonhap News Agency) On Tuesday, fans were busy taking selfies in front of Sky Pizza, a family run pizzeria that appears as Pizza Age in the black comedy. A placard with Bong's autograph was on display at the pizzeria in the Dongjak Ward in southern Seoul.
"I've always admired director Bong Joon ho. I'm visiting all the main places that appeared in the film after it won awards at the Oscars," 29 year old film fan Park Byung ryul told Yonhap News Agency.
Doijissal Supermarket, which means "pig rice supermarket" in Korean and appeared as the Woori Supermarket in the film, is also in the spotlight.
Kim Kyeong soon, 73, and Lee Jeong sik, 77, who run the mom and pop grocery in Mapo Ward in western Seoul said they were "elated" with the film's victories.
"We were so elated by the awards that we couldn't sleep," the elderly couple said.
"Some people who claim to be film buffs came here, and a lot of foreign tourists have also visited to take photos and buy something," they said.
The area near Jahamun Tunnel in central Seoul has also become a popular spot on social media.
"It's a road that I often visit for walks, but after the awards, it feels more special," said 29 year old Park So hyun, who lives in the hilly neighborhood.
"It feels weird that a place so commonplace to me will feel new to international fans," Park told Yonhap.
Park wasn't the only one feeling "weird."
Kim Ju sam, 57, who runs a coffee shop near the tunnel said he shares the sentiment and also feels "proud."
"Some of the crew came to my place for coffee during filming. To see a movie that I witnessed being made win such a big award feels strange but also gives me a sense of pride," he said.
The Seoul city government has also introduced four spots that appeared in the movie on its website (http://english.visitseoul.net/hallyu/Parasite tour course_/32561) for tourists.
"We initially compiled the post last year but retweeted it following the Oscars win. Nothing's decided at the moment, but we are reviewing plans to introduce walking programs for visitors," said an official at the city government's tourism department.
"Parasite," which starkly highlights issues of wealth and poverty in Asia's fourth largest economy, scooped up four accolades at the Academy Awards held in Los Angeles on Sunday (local time).
Not only did it become the first Korean film to win an Oscars in the local film industry's centennial history, it won both best international feature film and best picture for the first time in the Oscars' 92 year history.
 Load-Date: February 18, 2020

 

End of Document


"Don't get on the cart...": Chilean vineyard held appearance on "Parasite" and touted it
CE Noticias Financieras English
February 12, 2020 Wednesday

 Copyright 2020 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved
Length: 448 words
Body




A widespread trolley received the Viña Morandé,which distributes wines from Chile to more than 40 countries worldwide. All this for boasting that he appeared for a few seconds in the recently Oscar-winning film Parasite.

"At Viña Morande we are proud to be mentioned in Parasite, the first non-English language film to win an Oscar Thank you Bong Joon-Ho! for these second spawns!" said the company's instagram.

After publication, they did not take into account the wave of trolling they received from netizens, so they had to delete the comments on that social network. However, the taunts continued on twitter.
Teasing
"The reference to Viña Morandé is so tiny, so little, that it does not give even for reference, it is like the appearance of Viña San Pedro in the film El Tiempo de Kim Ki Duk", was one of the comments of that social network.

"How do you say victory cart in Korean?" ironed another. The reviews focused on the context in which the wine boxes are displayed was achieved in the film with the aim of accentuating the difference in classes.

View this post on Instagram

At Viña Morande we are proud to be mentioned in Parasite, the first non-English language film to win an Oscar Thank you Bong Joon-Ho! for these seconds of appearance! ——————————————————————- Viña Morande is proud to be mentioned at Parasite, the First non-English movie to win an Oscar Thanks Bong Joon-Ho! for these seconds of appearance!

A post shared by Viña Morandé (@vinos_morande) on Feb 11, 2020 at 9:59am PST


The Morandé vineyard and the Chile brand trying to light Chilean wines appear on Parasite it's like Hugo Boss came out saying "look, we're in a film about Nazis ????????????????????." I'm overwhelmed by the deep stupidity that leads them to BE PARASITE PARASITE STONTHE WEA.

— baby joe pesci ???? (@youngcuma) February 12, 2020


The reference to Viña Morandé is so tiny, so little, that it does not give even for reference, it is like the appearance of Viña San Pedro in the film El Tiempo de Kim Ki Duk. pic.twitter.com/tkkz5ubiaw

— Angel Diaz ???? #YoVotoApruebo (@maniacotv) February 12, 2020


Viña Morandé: "I tell you that I appeared on Parasite, look in the credits"

Parasite: "Goodbye friends hahahaha"

VM: "There's my name look..."

Twitter: "It looks more like Morel... Wines"

Instagram: "No, says Maluenda... Enrique Maluenda"

#FelizMiercoles pic.twitter.com/46lCV84qyO

— Bety Simonson (@bety_simonson) February 12, 2020


Please don't be modest ???? we all know that Parásitos won thanks to Viña Morandé pic.twitter.com/qxcJU7OMqb

— Lolo (@lorefurche) February 12, 2020



The post "Don't get on the cart...": Chilean vineyard celebrated appearance on "Parasite" and the trolley appeared first on La Cuarta.
 Load-Date: February 13, 2020

 

End of Document


Oscars battle set to begin with war epic 1917 favorite to take home Best Film over The Joker and South Korea's Parasite - while Hollywood stars slam the Academy for the lack of diversity among nominees
MailOnline
February 9, 2020 Sunday 5:12 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved
 
Section: NEWS; Version:4
Length: 1203 words
Byline: Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.comReuters
Body




•	Oscars may see the revival of #OscarsSoWhite with only one person of colour, Cynthia Erivo, in the race; Erivo is nominated for best actress
•	There's also the issue of the nominations field being an all-male director field
•	Brad Pitt, Elton John, Scarlett Johansson and Martin Scorsese are among the A-List nominees, alongside little-known cast of Korean-language drama Parasite
•	If Parasite wins, it would be first time a foreign language movie won for best film
•	Parasite will be competing against Sam Mendes' World War One movie 1917
•	Johansson is nominated for Marriage Story and Jojo Rabbit; should she win both, she would be first to win two Oscars in same night
Hollywood will hand out its highest honours on Sunday at the 92nd Academy Awards ceremony that could see a battle between 1917 and South Korea's Parasite for Best Film, and an all-white actor winner podium that has revived the #OscarsSoWhite debate. 
A lavish, spiral stage featuring 40,000 crystals at Los Angeles' Dolby Theatre will be the glittering setting as the 24 golden statuettes are handed out on Tinseltown's biggest night. 
All eyes are on the coveted best picture prize, which awards watchers believe is a three-way race between independent social satire Parasite, British director Sam Mendes' immersive World War One movie 1917 from Universal Pictures, and Quentin Tarantino's love letter to show business, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, from Sony Pictures. 
                     Brad Pitt, Elton John, Charlize Theron, Leonardo DiCaprio, Scarlett Johansson and Martin Scorsese are among the A-List nominees, alongside the little-known cast of Korean-language drama Parasite, which threatens to steal the thunder from Hollywood's biggest names. 
This year is definitely a poor one for diversity, with Cynthia Erivo being the only actor of colour in the race, reviving the #OscarsSoWhite debate of four years ago. 
Erivo, who played slavery-era freedom fighter Harriet Tubman in Harriet, is up against Renee Zellweger, who has swept up awards this season for her performance as an ageing Judy Garland in Judy. 
'She gave an amazing performance,' said Variety chief film critic Owen Gleiberman. 'My jaw was just on the floor.'
There's also the issue of the field being an all-male director field. 
South Korean director Bong Joon Ho's drama Parasite is competing for both best picture and best international feature. 
'The smart bet is definitely "1917," but I do not rule out the possibility of something else winning, whether that be "Parasite" or "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," or "Jojo Rabbit",' Scott Feinberg, awards columnist for The Hollywood Reporter, said ahead of the show.
Parasite looks certain to win the newly named best international film category and is seeking to enter the history books as the first film in a foreign language to win a best picture Oscar. 
Pitt, the supporting actor frontrunner, is riding high, winning multiple awards for his role as a charming stunt man in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. He's delivered witty speeches and set hearts aflutter with a backstage encounter with his ex-wife Jennifer Aniston that went viral last month. 
Pitt says he won't be bringing a date to the Oscars. Neither Aniston nor Pitt's second ex-wife, Angelina Jolie, have been announced as attending Sunday's show. 
Johansson is nominated in both the lead actress for Marriage Story and supporting actress for Jojo Rabbit. 
Should she win both, she will make history as the first actor to win two Oscars for different roles on the same night. 
Dark comic book movie Joker from Warner Bros, which has a leading 11 nominations, Netflix divorce drama Marriage Story and the streaming service's mob epic The Irishman, race-car drama Ford v Ferrari from 20th Century Studios, and novel adaptation Little Women from Sony Pictures, round out the competition for the top prize.
Variety senior film editor Marc Malkin said he believes someone will absolutely address the fact that no female directors were nominated for Oscars this year. 
'Who is going to address the complete shutout...? I imagine someone will do that,' Malkin said.
Irish maestro Eimear Noone will become the first woman to conduct the Oscars orchestra, but diversity among guest hosts and performers is unlikely to assuage anger over this year's nominations.
'I wouldn't call it #OscarsSoWhite but I'd say it's #OscarsAsUsual,' Deadline awards columnist Pete Hammond said.
'It looks like the Oscars could have been 30 years ago.'
The Oscars in the acting categories - usually a subject of agonizing deliberation for industry pundits - appear settled, with the same four stars sweeping up rave reviews and prizes all season.
Joaquin Phoenix and Renee Zellweger are believed to be far ahead of the competition for best actor and best actress. 
Phoenix underwent a striking transformation to portray the title comic book supervillain in Joker - as did Zellweger to play legendary Hollywood diva Judy Garland in Judy.
Experts believe Phoenix is the favorite to win his first Oscar for a disturbing performance as the loner clown who turned to violence.
The winners are chosen by the 8,000 members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and for the second year in a row, the show has no host.
In 2019, rock band Queen got proceedings off to a rousing start with a live performance to mark the success of movie 'Bohemian Rhapsody' but this year organizers aren't saying how they will grab the attention of audiences settling in at home. 
Netflix boosted its Hollywood credentials by getting a leading 24 nominations this year, including for drama The Two Popes, animated movie Klaus, and documentary American Factory. 
Yet the coveted best picture Oscar may elude it yet again on Sunday, awards watchers say. 
Elton John, Billie Eilish and Idina Menzel are also among musicians scheduled to perform on the Oscars stage. 
The event's luxury and glamour will contrast with the grief enveloping Los Angeles over the recent deaths of Golden Age film legend Kirk Douglas and Oscar-winning basketball star Kobe Bryant.
Both titans have been added to a hastily re-edited 'in memoriam' montage honoring those Hollywood lost this year, with Eilish expected to provide a moving musical accompaniment.
The record Grammy-winning singer, who will soon voice the new James Bond theme, is one of several high-profile musical guests on a night when all five nominated songs will be performed.
John, who is tipped to win for (I'm Gonna) Love Me Again from Rocketman, will feature, as will Erivo, who also sang and wrote the theme to Harriet. 
Meanwhile, look for the red carpet to be dominated by Pose star Billy Porter. 
Porter has transformed the red carpet with headline grabbing, gender fluid outfits ranging from a black velvet tuxedo gown to a remote-controlled hat and a golden pharaoh outfit. 
He has said he's planning another surprise for Sunday.
The line up of presenters include Bohemian Rhapsody star Rami Malek, Star Wars actress Kelly Marie Tran, director Spike Lee, Salma Hayek, Mahershala Ali, Mindy Kaling, Lin-Manuel Miranda and rising star Utkarsh Ambudkar will all take the Oscar stage. 
The Academy Awards will be televised live from Hollywood on ABC television, starting at 8pm ET/5pm PT.
 Load-Date: February 10, 2020

 

End of Document


SKorea's Oscar-tipped 'Parasite' sets French box office record
Agence France Presse -- English
September 20, 2019 Friday 2:29 PM GMT

 Copyright 2019 Agence France Presse All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 390 words
Dateline: Paris, Sept 20 2019
Body




The South Korean satire "Parasite" has become the most successful Cannes-winning film at the French box office in 15 years, new figures show.
Director Bong Joon-ho became the first Korean to lift the Palme d'Or in May for his brilliant class war black comedy, and is an early favourite to lift the best foreign language movie Oscar.
More than 1.6 million people have paid to see the film in France so far, according to the site CBO box office, a feat not achieved by a Cannes-winner since Michael Moore's incendiary documentary, "Fahrenheit 9/11", in 2004.
After ecstatic reviews at the Toronto and Telluride festivals this month, Vanity Fair said it "has everything that a (Oscar) best-picture front-runner could possibly need. Except the English language."
Even so critic Katey Rich said lightning could strike twice and it could yet follow the Mexican film "Roma", which became the first non-English language film ever to be nominated for best picture last year.
It went on to win three Oscars, including best foreign language film and best director for its maker Alfonso Cuaron.
- 'How far can it go?' -
She predicted that Bong's exhilarating story about a family of clever underclass scammers was virtually guaranteed a clutch of nominations.
"The question now is how much further it can go," said Rich.
"It's hard to imagine that Academy voters won't feel the same pull that festival audiences have... It's even harder to imagine that anyone who starts watching 'Parasite' could stop; the film's propulsive energy sweeps all the way through to its towering conclusion," she added.
If it does get an Oscar nomination, it will make history as the first South Korean film to do so.
The rights to "Parasite" were already sold to distributors in 192 countries even before its premiere in Cannes -- a record for a Korean film.
Bong, 49, best known for the cult hits "The Host", "Snowpiercer" and "Okja", is one of a rising wave of Korean directors including Park Chan-wook ("The Handmaiden") and Lee Chang-dong ("Burning").
Only two Palme d'Or-winning films have sold more than one million tickets in France since Moore's indictment of George W Bush's foreign policy after the September 11 attacks -- Laurent Cantet's school-set "The Class" in 2008 and Abdellatif Kechiche's highly controversial lesbian love story, "Blue Is the Warmest Colour" in 2013.
 Load-Date: September 21, 2019

 

End of Document


Learn from the success of 'Parasite'
Business Mirror (Philippines)
March 14, 2020 Saturday

 Copyright 2020 Business Mirror All Rights Reserved
Length: 1100 words
Body




 By winning the Oscar's Best Picture, the Korean film Parasite not only made history, it also set a benchmark for the rest of Asian cinema. What's our take home?
The remarkable feat of Parasite is not just a fluke or tsamba in our local lingo. It was, in fact, the culmination of decades of sustained growth of South Korean cinema. It was inevitable and, had been a long time coming, to be sure. Korean films have been reaping awards in Cannes and Berlin, Venice and other international festivals. Breakthrough films like Oldboy and Burning helped pave the way for Parasite toward the Academy Awards.
The cultural environment is ripe for it. Korean cinema, together with the entire K-pop culture, has become global as Korean movies and tele-novelas are now ubiquitously watched around the world. Korean movies have even broke global box-office records, like Miracle in Cell No. 7, The Host and Train to Busan. Bong Joon-ho, Park Chan-wook and other Korean directors have directed Hollywood movies, a recognition of their expertise and craftsmanship. Even Korean actors like Lee Byung-hun and Ma Dong-seok have been appearing in some Hollywood movies. South Korea's Busan International Film Festival has now become Asia's largest and most important film festival.
As a cinephile for over 60 years now (I saw my first film in 1957), I have seen the rise of Korean cinema in terms not only of output but level of quality. I was a fan of Korean glossy blockbusters and creative genre films, which began to emerge in the late 1990s and 2000s, and started to attract significant international attention. Thanks to the proficient subtitling of their films, the rest of the world acquired a taste for them.
But it should be noted that while they score big in international film festivals, South Korean films are being patronized by local audiences.
Audience support. That's the key factor in their success. They had a ready audience for them. To me, it's the missing piece in our efforts to level up our local cinema. In our good-intentioned eagerness and enthusiasm to cultivate new filmmakers through film festivals, we may have forgotten the other part of the equation: the audience.
Sure, we have all these indie film festivals designed to offer films that are a notch higher in terms of content and style than what are being shown in the more mainstream, avowedly more commercial MMFF, Cinemalaya, QCinema, Cinema One Originals and so on. They are held one after the other, year after year. It's a virtual cornucopia of fresh new films by our young filmmakers. But there is one problem: the mainstream audience does not come to these festivals.
For festival organizers, the gauge of commercial success is so low. An audience of 5,000 for a 10-day festival is already something to brag about. (Disclosure: I am part of the technical working group of QCinema International Film Festival, so I would know).
Maybe Filipino viewers are not made aware enough about these festivals, or they simply resist going to these festivals. So how can we give them a taste of what a good film is when they don't queue up in spite of the incentive of a much lower ticket price?
The common beef about indie film festivals is that they are closed events; it's where you see the usual faces-elite and effete film cognoscenti and culturati who are into precious little art films. The dismissive justification is: if you don't get it, it's not for you. The upshot is only a few care to watch them. No wonder some cynics say that the term indie is derived from the expression 'indie pinapanood.'
True or not, this snobbish aura attached to indie film festivals nevertheless needs to change if festivals are to stay vibrant and sustainable. Rather than be excluded, ordinary citizens need to be encouraged to see these less watched films. They need to be coaxed, beguiled, and won over into becoming appreciative of films not for their star value, but for their content and craftsmanship. Let's widen the circle exponentially, to include more and more, year after year.
The bottom line: let's not only make good films, let's also build the audience-people who will be taught to be critical and demanding. To echo the latest marketing buzz, let's open up a 'blue ocean' market and create new demand for well-made meaningful but engaging films. Let's make watching indie films fashionable or, should I say, 'cool.' That takes education and wider exposure.
In this light, I think Quezon City is in the right direction. Mayor Joy Belmonte hit the nail on the head in her keynote speech at the Seventh annual QCinema Awards, when she broached her idea about film viewers becoming educated jurors of films themselves and expanding the market for QCinema.
Mayor Belmonte said something about campus roadshows, which include the showing of QCinema winners with short lectures and open discussions. That's smart. Let's start them while they are young. To bring QCinema's cinematic feast down to the grassroots, there have also been free film showings in the city's barangays. Beyond the pleasure of watching, let's stimulate discussions in the school, with family and friends and our different interpretations of the same film. As Mayor Belmonte puts it: 'Cinema is a social activity…the meaning of a movie does not lie solely within the film itself but in the interaction of the film and the audience.'
Indeed, let's encourage ordinary moviegoers to write reviews and be vocal about films. Sort of turning every moviegoer into a lay Richard Bolisay or Pauline Kael. This way we are actually taking part in the progress of our filmmakers, by pushing the boundaries of their imagination and creativity.
Making a 'cinezen' out of every citizen makes business sense. With every 'woke' moviegoer, the market continues to expand for quality film festivals, giving the mainstream commercial circuit a run for its money. By giving voice to an ordinary cinezen's passion for cinema that is meaningful, provocative and progressive, may this one humble opinion stimulate more exciting discussions about the many ways to help put our cinema industry on the global stage (or, should I say, screen) in the years to come.
Let's hope that other film festival organizers, as well as universities, would invest in pursuing developmental activities along the line of film appreciation and film criticism. Let us build critical, demanding cinema goers who will be the foundation for a vibrant new Philippine cinema that would, one day, make world history like Parasite.
So, hopefully, in the next editions of local film festivals, we won't see the usual faces again and again.
 Load-Date: March 16, 2020

 

End of Document


The Next 'Parasite'? There Isn't One, and Other Lessons of the Berlin Film Market
Newstex Blogs 
indieWIRE
March 2, 2020 Monday 11:06 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1907 words
Byline: Anne Thompson
Body




Mar 02, 2020( indieWIRE: http://indiewire.com Delivered by Newstex)  Just as local audiences flocked to this year's Berlinale on its 70th anniversary, its European Film Market attracted more than 11,000 visitors, up 500 from last year — even after over 60 Chinese delegates withdrew. That said: Sales were down. At perhaps the only Berlinale ever to take place after the Oscars, Bong Joon Ho's Best Picture-winner and global blockbuster 'Parasite' was top of mind. However, buyers quickly decided that the accessible arthouse breakout will be hard to duplicate. 
''Parasite' was a good thing,' said EFM head Matthijs Wouter Knol. 'People came to the market with high spirits about the chance for arthouse films to be discovered. Sadly, the arthouse film in reality these past days is struggling; it's not the most easy part of cinema. That some people went home disappointed with their results doesn't take away the fact that films like 'Parasite' do have a chance.' Here are further gleanings from Berlin[1].The middle ground is shrinking.'Things change market to market,' said one UK seller. 'Everyone says 'the AFM is over,' 'Cannes is slow.' It depends what packages are available. Every territory is saying the same thing: They want huge, commercial projects that compete with studios —action-genre stuff at the right price — but then they want cool, hooky arthouse stuff to buy cheap and break out that is not risky.' Several big titles sold at the EFM, notably 'The Good Nurse,' Danish filmmaker Tobias Lindholm's English-language debut, adapted by Krysty Wilson-Cairn ('1917') from Charles Graeber's non-fiction book about a notorious nurse (Jessica Chastain) who killed 400 patients via air embolism. After FilmNation and Lionsgate discussed a possible North American deal to pay for the film and sell territories worldwide, Netflix plunked down a reported $25 million to back the package co-starring Eddie Redmayne. Other hot sales titles were the Gerard Butler actioner 'Remote Control,' Mike Mills' untitled road movie starring Oscar-winner Joaquin Phoenix[2] as an artist in charge of his brainy nephew, and the Robert Pattinson-Margaret Qualley romance 'The Stars at Noon,' which presold to A24. Also for sale from Endeavor Content was Maggie Gyllenhaal's directing debut 'The Lost Daughter,' starring Olivia Colman, Jessie Buckley, and Dakota Johnson. 'The stuff in the middle, it's such a risk for theatrical distributors,' continued the UK distributor. 'Globally, people are not going to see that in cinemas. They wait to see that on streaming, on Netflix in a few months. Cinema is an event-based business. People have to be driven out of their home. Look at 'Parasite,' which is so unique and different. But it might never happen again.' Myriad Pictures principal Kirk D'Amicoagreed. 'The middle is missing,' he said. 'Fewer distributors like Wild Bunch are in the middle. It's a tough place to be.'It's feast or famine.'The feedback we got from buyers and sellers was that the kind of business done in Berlin was different than expected,' said Knol. 'Even after the upheaval and enthusiasm for 'Parasite,' there was more success in the mainstream content market than the arthouse market.' While some Sundance titles like Phyllida Lloyd's 'Herself and the Dreamhorse' (Cornerstone Films) and Brandon Cronenberg's horrific 'Possessor' (Arclight) were selling, much of what was for sale in Berlin, nobody wanted. 'Sales agents were anxious,' said one arthouse buyer, who said he was pitched countless projects that were just too small, many of them co-productions financed with local subsidies. 'Tons of little movies won't play without name directors or cast. They're either too arthouse, or too mainstream.' 'I haven't seen those films I am waiting for,' said one European distributor over coffee at the Hyatt industry hub. 'There's a big gap between the top three titles and lots of arthouse films. It's important to be very picky and choose the right ones that reach out to audiences.' Berlinale titles that sold to North America were German auteur Christian Petzold's mermaid romance 'Undine' (IFC) starring Best Actress-winner and rising star Paula Beer, and documentarian Victor Kossakovsky's 'Gunda,' a one-of-a-kind black-and-white portrait of a pig (Neon). Bleecker pre-bought North America on two films, Sally Potter's weak Competition dementia drama 'The Roads Not Taken' and John Patrick Shanley romance 'Wild Mountain Thyme,' starring Emily Blunt and Jamie Dornan, a market title. Iranian Golden Bear-winner 'There Is No Evil,'[3] a powerful anthology of four different executioner stories that runs 158 minutes, generated high European buyer interest, but could be a hard sell in North America. Johnny Depp vehicle 'Minimata' proved to be a soft stateside sell, as did Matteo Garrone's Italian hit 'Pinocchio' starring Roberto Benigni, a dark tale that falls between family and arthouse, and two Memento Films International titles, Berlinale opener 'My Salinger Year,' starring Sigourney Weaver and Margaret Qualley, and Vadim Perelman's 'Persian Stories.' Distributors looking for foreign-language buys always track prizes and likely Oscar submissions. Italy is more likely to submit Nanni Moretti's upcoming Cannes entry. And similarly, Philippe Garrel's portrait of a womanizer, 'The Salt of Tears,' is unlikely to be high on France's Oscar list. Brazilian film 'All the Dead Ones' is not seen as Brazil's Oscar entry. And strong Argentinan hopeful 'The Intruder' could have used a Berlinale prize.Caution rules.There's a time-honored practice ofpresellIng foreign territories to finance a film, often by cutting footage into a two-to-three-minute sizzle reel. (Roadside Attractions pre-bought 'Judy' off a promo at Cannes 2018 .) However, that strategy doesn't work if everyone waits to screen the final product. Said the UK seller, 'People are buying less off script. In my last two markets, territories that would have been straight up prebuys and wouldn't have hesitated are becoming more reticent to put down money early. If it has cast, it sells much easier.' This is particularly true for North American sales. 'North America ends up being the last thing sold,' said Jason Scoggins, president and COO of online financing market Slated. 'Most finance plans put a zero in there, assuming they will have something at some time. If you've got good product, you will get interest from buyers and they desperately need the stuff. They don't want to take risk on yet another programmatic action movie thriller. Familiarity is a problem. You need bold choices and recognizable names.' On the other hand, who needs a theatrical North American deal when the streamers are willing to overpay? A domestic backstop deal used to be desirable; now sellers are eager to keep their options open, as P...osts can risk as much as $20 million-$40 million. 'There are other ways to get your money back,' said Scoggins.Stars are less available.Deep-pocketed streamers like Netflix are luring the name draws beloved by foreign buyers. Producers make wish lists based on predetermined foreign-sales values, which are often out of date; this is why 'Lord of the Rings' star Liv Tyler or 'Harry Potter' stars Emma Watson and Daniel Radcliffe can get movies made, along with 'Twilight' stars Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson and Daisy Ridley of 'Star Wars' fame. Who's hot in the foreign sales world is determined by 'a bunch of old white guys not changing with the times,' said one film packager. 'They'll start dying off, and the next generation will come in and there will be more change and flexibility.' International stars are crucial to driving box office. But these days the stars aren't available; even studios compete to get a slot on their busy schedules. 'The streamers are making it hard to secure talent as well as stages like Babelsberg and Pinewood,' said Scoggins. 'Netflix and Amazon have a huge amount of volume.'Streamers dominate.Netflix is making inroads on local production. So will its six competitors: Amazon, Hulu, Apple, Disney+, Peacock, and HBO Max. 'They have no choice but to go global,' said Scoggins. Streamers use different metrics for what they spend. Their goal is to provide enough fresh, original content to lure more subscribers. The more subscribers they have, the more they can spend. This makes things tougher for the indies and studios that try to compete with them. 'There's a reduction of independent films getting made and bonded,' said D'Amico, 'due to the economics of competing for cast and directors with streamers.' While studios are forced to pay top dollar, smaller indies have an advantage in their inability to chase the most expensive talent: They can make do with less. On the other hand, 'Streamers don't have a lot of appetite now that they are producing their own content,' said Memento International managing director milie Georges, who last year sold Kristen Stewart vehicle 'Seberg' to Amazon. 'As for the U.S., indie films were very active for a period and now are very occasionally interested in finished content.' Knol said the highest delegations of EFM buyers came from Amazon and Netflix in 2019 and 2020. 'Other platforms were present, but not so visible,' he added. 'This year, people had meetings with Apple TV, Disney+, HBO Max, and Peacock. They do affect the market in a big way and influence what other buyers can offer, what deals are made.' According to Unifrance executives Serge Toubiana and Daniela Elstner, the French film industry is reconsidering its carefully constructed sharing of theater and television revenues with producers, in order to include Netflix. 'People in Europe start joining forces, finding ways to protect their local markets,which have carefully built up infrastructures to secure funding and co-production, which are directly affected by Netflix buyers,' Knol said. 'Netflix and Amazon have started in Europe commissioning content with independent producers. Strong producer associations and European funding bodies got together, feeling the need to do something to protect the infrastructure we have, in an attempt to say, 'If streaming platforms are commissioning content from indie producers, they should contribute.''Networking and human connection are good.Plenty of people use the EFM for face-to-face meetings; even Slated's Scoggins returned to Berlin to set up more projects like its biggest hit to date, 'Super Troopers 2.' Slated also attends markets in Sundance, Cannes, Toronto, and the AFM. In Berlin, Scoggins was ramping up production on 'Shark Attack,' which came to Slated's Advisor division via a debt financier he met in Berlin last year. 'Our main goal is to connect with people from Europe and other countries we don't see at other markets, sales agents we know or don't yet know, as well as sitting down with new and existing producers and connecting them with people we know,' he said. 'Slated's platform matches film financiers and projects with financing sales and distribution. We use the network and people and companies on the platform to surface projects that are the most likely to succeed commercially and artistically.' [ 1]: https://www.indiewire.com/t/berlin/ [ 2]:            https://www.indiewire.com/2019/10/joaquin-phoenix-the-joker-todd-phillips-mirror-1202177432/ [ 3]:            https://www.indiewire.com/2020/02/there-is-no-evil-review-mohammad-rasoulof-berlinale-1202214198/ 
 Load-Date: March 2, 2020

 

End of Document


Trump blasts best-picture Oscar for South Korean film Parasite
China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)
February 21, 2020 Friday

 Copyright 2020 China Daily Information. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
Length: 428 words
Body




A still image from the film "Parasite". (PHOTO / MTIME VIA CHINADAILY.COM.CN)
COLORADO SPRINGS - US President Donald Trump on Thursday ridiculed the historic best-picture Oscar win for South Korean film Parasite, telling a campaign rally he wished for the return of Hollywood classics like 1939's Gone with the Wind.
How bad were the Academy Awards this year? ... We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?
Donald Trump, US president
Parasite, a dark social satire about the gap between rich and poor in modern Seoul, earlier this month became the first non-English-language film to take Hollywood's top prize. It also won three other Oscars - best director and original screenplay for Bong Joon-ho and best international feature film.
"How bad were the Academy Awards this year?" asked Trump at the rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Imitating an Academy Awards presenter, he said: "And the winner is a movie from South Korea.
"What the hell was that all about? We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?" Trump added.
"Can we get Gone With the Wind back, please?" he said to thousands of supporters, referring to the film about the Civil War-era South that won the best-picture Oscar 80 years ago.
US President Donald Trump gestures as he addresses a "Keep America Great" rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Feb 20, 2020. (JIM WATSON / AFP)
Trump also dismissed actor Brad Pitt, who won an Oscar for best supporting actor for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Pitt said in accepting the award that he got more time to speak, 45 seconds, than former national security adviser John Bolton received at Trump's Senate impeachment trial.
"I was never a big fan of his. He's a little wise guy," Trump said of Pitt.
Trump, who is on a four-day Western US swing, gave a harsh review as well of Wednesday night's Democratic presidential debate, particularly the performance of former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who the president said had a ragged night.
"I was going to send him a note saying: 'It's not easy doing what I do, is it?' It's not easy, Mike. It's not easy for any of them," he said of the contenders for the Democratic nomination to face him in November's election.
Trump is set to return to Washington after speaking at a rally in Las Vegas on Friday.
https://s3.amazonaws.com/syndigateimages/syndigate/imgs/498/1495/78/158225804014.jpeg
https://s3.amazonaws.com/syndigateimages/syndigate/imgs/498/1495/10/158225804116.jpeg
 Load-Date: February 21, 2020

 

End of Document


Trump blasts best-picture Oscar for South Korean film 'Parasite'
National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)
February 21, 2020 Friday
Web Edition

 Copyright 2020 National Post All Rights Reserved
Section: PMN ENTERTAINMENT
Length: 352 words
Body




COLORADO SPRINGS - President Donald Trump on Thursday ridiculed the historic best-picture Oscar win for South Korean film "Parasite," telling a campaign rally he wished for the return of Hollywood classics like 1939's "Gone with the Wind."
"Parasite," a dark social satire about the gap between rich and poor in modern Seoul, earlier this month became the first non-English-language film to take Hollywood's top prize. It also won three other Oscars - best director and original screenplay for Bong Joon Ho and best international feature film.
"How bad were the Academy Awards this year?" asked Trump at the rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Imitating an Academy Awards presenter, he said: "And the winner is a movie from South Korea.
"What the hell was that all about? We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?" Trump added.
"Can we get 'Gone With the Wind' back, please?" he said to thousands of supporters, referring to the film about the Civil War-era South that won the best-picture Oscar 80 years ago.
Trump also dismissed actor Brad Pitt, who won an Oscar for best supporting actor for "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood." Pitt said in accepting the award that he got more time to speak, 45 seconds, than former national security adviser John Bolton received at Trump's Senate impeachment trial.
"I was never a big fan of his. He's a little wise guy," Trump said of Pitt.
Trump, who is on a four-day Western U.S. swing, gave a harsh review as well of Wednesday night's Democratic presidential debate, particularly the performance of former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who the president said had a ragged night.
"I was going to send him a note saying: 'It's not easy doing what I do, is it?' It's not easy, Mike. It's not easy for any of them," he said of the contenders for the Democratic nomination to face him in November's election.
Trump is set to return to Washington after speaking at a rally in Las Vegas on Friday. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Peter Cooney) !@COPYRIGHT=© 2020 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
 Load-Date: February 21, 2020

 

End of Document


Trump blasts best-picture Oscar for South Korean film 'Parasite'
Postmedia Breaking News
February 21, 2020 Friday
Web Edition

 Copyright 2020 Postmedia Breaking News All Rights Reserved
Section: PMN ENTERTAINMENT
Length: 352 words
Body




COLORADO SPRINGS - President Donald Trump on Thursday ridiculed the historic best-picture Oscar win for South Korean film "Parasite," telling a campaign rally he wished for the return of Hollywood classics like 1939's "Gone with the Wind."
"Parasite," a dark social satire about the gap between rich and poor in modern Seoul, earlier this month became the first non-English-language film to take Hollywood's top prize. It also won three other Oscars - best director and original screenplay for Bong Joon Ho and best international feature film.
"How bad were the Academy Awards this year?" asked Trump at the rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Imitating an Academy Awards presenter, he said: "And the winner is a movie from South Korea.
"What the hell was that all about? We've got enough problems with South Korea, with trade. And after all that, they give them best movie of the year?" Trump added.
"Can we get 'Gone With the Wind' back, please?" he said to thousands of supporters, referring to the film about the Civil War-era South that won the best-picture Oscar 80 years ago.
Trump also dismissed actor Brad Pitt, who won an Oscar for best supporting actor for "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood." Pitt said in accepting the award that he got more time to speak, 45 seconds, than former national security adviser John Bolton received at Trump's Senate impeachment trial.
"I was never a big fan of his. He's a little wise guy," Trump said of Pitt.
Trump, who is on a four-day Western U.S. swing, gave a harsh review as well of Wednesday night's Democratic presidential debate, particularly the performance of former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who the president said had a ragged night.
"I was going to send him a note saying: 'It's not easy doing what I do, is it?' It's not easy, Mike. It's not easy for any of them," he said of the contenders for the Democratic nomination to face him in November's election.
Trump is set to return to Washington after speaking at a rally in Las Vegas on Friday. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Peter Cooney) !@COPYRIGHT=© 2020 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
 Load-Date: February 20, 2020

 

End of Document


'Joker,' 'Parasite,' '1917,' 'Little Women' land WGA noms
The Associated Press
January 6, 2020 Monday 7:16 PM GMT

 Copyright 2020 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 372 words
Byline: By JAKE COYLE, AP Film Writer
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body




NEW YORK (AP) - Sam Mendes' World War I tale "1917" followed up its big night at the Golden Globes with a nomination for best screenplay from the Writers Guild on Monday.
Alongside "1917," the writers guild nominated for best original screenplay the scripts to "Booksmart," "Knives Out," "Marriage Story" and "Parasite."
In the adapted screenplay category, the guild selected "A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood," "The Irishman," "Jojo Rabbit," "Joker" and "Little Women."
A handful of contenders weren't eligible because the Writers Guild only rewards films produced under a WGA contract. Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood," which won best screenplay Sunday at the Globes, was ineligible. (Tarantino years ago refused to join the guild after a dispute over crediting on Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers.") Also out of the running were "The Farewell" and "Pain and Glory."
Because of those exceptions, the WGA Awards don't always predict Oscar nominees. But their choices otherwise largely overlap with eventual Academy Awards nominees.
That's good news for nominees like Greta Gerwig's Louisa May Alcott adaptation "Little Women," which has struggled to find traction in awards season despite rave reviews and strong box office. Bong Joon Ho's thriller "Parasite," which also received a best ensemble nomination from the Screen Actors Guild, also continues to look like a rare foreign language Oscar heavyweight.
The nomination for "1917," a movie most celebrated as a visual achievement, suggests the film is resonating outside of technical categories. In an upset on Sunday, Mendes' film won best drama and best director at the Globes. It's the first script the British director has written, penned with Krysty Wilson-Cairns.
While a number of front-runners like Noah Baumbach's "Marriage Story," "The Irishman" (written by Steven Zaillian) and Taika Waititi's "Jojo Rabbit" were predictably selected by the WGA, the guild also chose a handful of genre movies including the teen comedy "Booksmart" and Rian Johnson's whodunit "Knives Out."
The awards will be presented on Feb. 1 in concurrent ceremonies in Los Angeles and New York. On Tuesday, the Directors Guild and the Producers Guild announce their nominees.
 Load-Date: January 7, 2020

 

End of Document


After Oscars Success, What Comes Next for the Cast of 'Parasite'?
The Hollywood Reporter
February 21, 2020 Friday

 Copyright 2020 Prometheus Global Media, LLC All Rights Reserved
 
Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 644 words
Byline: Soomee Park
Highlight: After the film's historic night at the 2020 Oscars, the world soon may be seeing more of the film's now-beloved ensemble cast.  
Body




AfterParasite's historic success at the 2020 Oscars, the world soon may be seeing more of the film's now-beloved ensemble cast. The various actors who comprised the pic's wealthy Park family and the plucky, impoverished Kims were each already big stars at home in South Korea. But after becoming the surprise darlings of this year's awards season, culminating in a best picture win, producers and sales agents are anticipating an Oscars bump befitting their newfound global name recognition.
Korean acting legend Song Kang-ho , who played the patriarch of the Kim family in Parasite, was by far the biggest name of the cast, having starred in many of the most influential Korean films of the past two decades, including Bong Joon Ho's prior hits Memories of Murder,The HostandSnowpiercer, as well as acclaimed works from Park Chan-wook (Joint Security Area, Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance), Kim Jee-woon (The Good, the Bad, the Weird), Lee Chang-dong (Secret Sunshine) and others. Shortly after Parasite's release, Song told The Hollywood Reporter that he had little interest in "crossing over" to Hollywood. "Although I only make Korean films, helping these films be universal and have global influence is something that suits me better," he said.
After having helped Parasiteachieve just that, Song appears unlikely to change course. He is currently shooting a big-budget Korean disaster film, Emergency Declaration, directed by Han Jae-rim and co-starring fellow A-list leading man Lee Byung-hun.
Choi Woo-shik, who played Kim Ki-woo, the son of the poor family, appears most likely to make a post-Oscar international pivot. Raised in Canada, Choi is bilingual and was recently offered the lead role in A24's upcoming Korea-set love storyPast Lives, produced by Scott Rudin. Choi's agency in Seoul tells THRthat he's still reviewing the part. In the meantime, he's busy shooting the upcoming Korean police thriller The Policeman's Lineage, based on a best-selling Japanese novel. Choi also stars in the dystopian thriller Time to Hunt, one of just two high-profile Korean titles premiering at this year's Berlinale.
This media is not available on this platform.
"The film has certainly attracted more buzz among the reporters and buyers after the Oscar announcement," says a representative for All That Cinema, Time to Hunt's PR company. Contents Panda, which is handling international sales on the title, similarly says it has received a surprise boost in buyer interest after the Oscars thanks to Choi's starring presence.
Lee Sun-kyun, who played the detached and deep-voiced Park family patriarch, is set to star in director Byun Sunghyun's upcoming film King Maker, playing a presidential campaign strategist in the 1960s.
Perhaps the most memorable breakout star of Parasite for international audiences, Park So-dam, who played the Kim family daughter, aka the sly "Miss Jessica," an "art tutor from Illinois," was exposed to international audiences before the Oscars. Park's Seoul-based agency Artist Company tellsTHR that she already has received several Hollywood offers, but that they are remaining cautious. "Nothing has been decided yet, but we are open to exploring roles that best suit the actor," an agency spokesman says.
Cho Yeo-jeong, who memorably played the naive wife and mother of the Park family in Parasite, tells THR that she also already has been approached with several offers from international studios. The actress realizes the Oscar halo tends to be fleeting, so she's looking for another indelible character, perhaps one with a bit more backbone this time. "I still haven't made up my mind," she says. "I've also got some other offers for Korean movies and I'm thinking very carefully about what should come next."
  
This story first appeared inThe Hollywood Reporter's Feb. 22 daily issue at the Berlin International Film Festival.
Link to Image
 Load-Date: February 24, 2020

 

End of Document


'Parasite' and 'Jojo Rabbit' Score Oscar Rebound at Indie Box Office
Newstex Blogs 
The Wrap
January 19, 2020 Sunday 6:06 PM EST

 Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Byline: Jeremy Fuster
Body




Jan 19, 2020( The Wrap: http://www.thewrap.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Several Best Picture Oscar contenders got a box office boost from their nominations this weekend, including NEON's 'Parasite' and Searchlight's 'Jojo Rabbit,' both of which had their theater counts significantly expanded to accommodate renewed audience interest. 'Parasite' expanded by nearly 500 screens to 843 locations, adding $2.1 million over the 4-day weekend to bring its total to $28.1 million. 
The Bong Joon-ho film became the first Korean movie ever to earn a nomination for Best Picture and took six nominations in all, including Best International Film, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. 'Jojo Rabbit,' meanwhile, added 895 screens to bring its total to 1,005, the largest expansion of any Oscar contender. The result is a $1.8 million total over the 4-day weekend, bringing its total to $23.8 million. 'Jojo Rabbit' was one of two films that Scarlett Johansson earned Oscar nominations for, taking a Best Supporting Actress nod for her work here to go with her Best Actress nod for 'Marriage Story. 'Jojo' took six nominations overall, including Best Adapted Screenplay for writer-director Taika Waititi. Among new releases, the highest profile arrival is GKIDS' anime film 'Weathering With You,' Makoto Shinkai's follow-up to the Japanese box office record breaker 'Your Name.' After a series of select fan screenings on Wednesday and Thursday via Fathom Events, the film was released on 500 screens and is estimated to earn $2.1 million for a per screen average of $4,245 and an overall total of $5.1 million.While reviews haven't been as strong as 'Your Name,' they are still overwhelmingly positive with critics and audience scores at 94% on Rotten Tomatoes. Related stories from TheWrap: 'Bad Boys' Rides High Again at Box Office While 'Dolittle' Crashes[1]'Little Women' Could Help the Oscars Break a Box Office Drought[2]'Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker' Set to Cross $1 Billion at Global Box Office[3] [ 1]: https://www.thewrap.com/bad-boys-rides-high-again-at-box-office-while-dolittle-crashes-will-smith-martin-lawrence/ [ 2]:            https://www.thewrap.com/little-women-could-help-the-oscars-break-a-box-office-drought/ [ 3]:            https://www.thewrap.com/star-wars-the-rise-of-skywalker-set-to-cross-1-billion-at-global-box-office/ 
 Load-Date: January 19, 2020

 

End of Document
